THE IDENTITY CHECK

1

THE

IDENTITY CHECK

Ken Merrell

KAYDEE BOOKS™

2 KEN MERRELL

Published by

KayDee Books TM

P.O. Box 970608

Orem, Utah 84097-0608

USA

e-mail sales@kaydeebooks.com

www.kenmerrell.com

This novel is a work of fiction inspired  by real life events. The characters, names, dialogue, plot
and incidents are products of the author’s imagination  or are used fictitiously and are not to be
construed  as real.  Any  references to  real  events, organizations,  businesses,  and locales  are
intended only  to give the fiction  a sense of reality  and authenticity. Any resemblance  to actual
persons,  living  or  dead,  is  purely  coincidental. To  opt-out  of  some  marketing  lists  call
1-888-567-8688, or, if you think you have been a victim of identity theft call 1-877-438-4338 or log
onto www.consumer.gov/idtheft.

Copyright © 2002 by Ken Merrell

All rights reserved.  No part of this book may  be reproduced in whole or in  part or transmitted in
any form or  by any means, electronically  or mechanically including photocopying,  recording, or by
any  information storage  and retrieval  system, without  the written  permission of  the Publisher,
except where permitted by law. ISBN: 0-9678510-2-5

May 2002

THE IDENTITY CHECK

3

THE

IDENTITY CHECK

4 KEN MERRELL

THE IDENTITY CHECK

5

PROLOGUE

THE OLD WOMAN HOBBLED off the bus and squinted at the setting sun. It blazed on the western horizon,
its rays like  rainbow daggers piercing the thick  cataracts that covered her tired  eyes. The storm
had passed  quickly, typical  of desert downpours.  The damp  Vegas air smelled  of wet  asphalt and
dustless desert plants, scrubbed  clean by the sudden downfall. Cars,  their hurried drivers hunched
over behind the wheel, sped up and down  Rancho Drive. Whirling tires splashed the oily residue from
the street,  spinning it into a  misty cloud that  hovered and clung  to the newly washed  air, then
drifted and settled again on everything within its toxic reach.

The entire process  would start all over again  with the next spring storm.  In a concrete-and-steel
cycle of  life, such  periodic rain storms  granted new soul  to the  wasteland town when  they came
thundering through. Precious life, unnoticed by passersby, clung inside a crack of the concrete curb
where the old woman stood.  The dry autumn seed had fought for sun  and moisture, struggling up from
its long  winter hiding place,  soon to feel  the fate  of the scorching  summer heat. Like  the old
woman, the seedling would constantly seek refuge, then shrivel and die, its remnants blowing to some
forgotten spot when it reached the final measure of its existence.

The wrinkled woman,  too, wandered where the wind would  blow. South when the wintry air  bit at her
corrugated arthritic hands, and  still further south when the frigid arctic  front once more plunged
from the land  up yonder. As the months  passed, when the sultry, sluggish atmosphere  choked at her
tired lungs,  she’d hop  a train and  venture northward to  a more  inviting town. Each  city held
favorite places to rest her tired bones, friends who made her vagrant existence bearable. Year after
lonely year, from one more short span of time to the next, she drifted.

But this evening the old woman was on a mission. She leaned to-6 KEN MERRELL

ward the busy street, listening to the passing  cars, measuring a safe gap to scurry across. Pursing
her lips,  she licked  the bitter  taste of  the dirty mist  from her  toothless mouth  and clutched
tightly to a  small stack of tattered envelopes  she held in her crooked fingers.  Then she launched
over the curb, fording the  west side of the street like a wise old cat.  Pausing in the median, she
hitched her  cotton calf-length skirt  back onto to  her bony hips and  tugged at the  pinched boxer
shorts that  lay beneath. Word had  gone out on the  street: The deposit box  was stationed onRancho
Drive, near the  old Husky station scheduled for  demolitionand a new shopping center  soon to come.
The sound of traffic died as the distant light choked the more sluggish, less fortunate travelers to
a stop.

The old woman had been  called Becky as a girl; nowadays, few knew her  name. Her close friends were
numbered like family and had busted their hides to collect the precious mail she anxiously sought to
deliver. “Come on,  Belle,” she mumbled under her  breath as she scooted from the  center of the
street and landed safely on the opposite curb. Mail  hadn’t come easily. In some cases it had come
illegally. Garbage cans  had been torn apart and  mail boxes opened. Addresses had  been located and
houses staked out.  But the mission had  been accomplished–and now the fireworks  would begin. Her
head slumped to the side, and from the corner of  her eye she labored to make out the letters on the
overhead Husky  sign. Then she turned  and shuffled to  the teller window. The  chubby-cheeked woman
inside the small glass booth slid her window open  and smiled at the weathered patron. “Can I help
you?”

The old  woman’s voice croaked in  a crude southern accent.  “You got a mail  drop?” The words
exhausted, her cheeks puckered involuntarily. The teller’s face maintained its luster. She offered
to take the mail and drop it in the box.

Hesitant to  give up her loot,  the haggard face crinkled  even more fiercely. “I  got it–if’n
you’ll just show me where it’s at.” The teller directed her to the opposite window, where, one
by one,  the vagrant bent to  insert each precious  letter into the metal  drop box. With a  sigh of
relief, she  then returned to the  street, opposite from where  her hasty pilgrimage had  begun. She
plopped down on  the bench and crossed her  tired legs, waiting. In quiet  conversation she mumbled,
turned to the

THE IDENTITY CHECK

7

side, listened and replied.

Fume-belching buses roared  past as the old woman  lingered. A handful of customers  pulled from the
cluttered boulevard to sidle up  to the aging pumps to fill their metal  coaches. Through it all the
near-blind stray, hunkered, talked,  listened. She sniffed the air. The  passing traffic carried the
rich aromas from the evening restaurants and stirred and blended them with exhaust vapors.

Once-glorious sun rays now melted into the reflection  on the soft, orange clouds; the shadows faded
into inescapable night. The  old woman nodded, her head of matted gray  hair slumping low, her lucid
state of consciousness drifting into a dreamy world of bacon and grits. The thick-cut strips of pork
sizzled on an  old potbellied stove situated at the  rear of a small shack. The  crying of an infant
wakened her from a morning nap.

“Ain’t you got my  grub done yet?” A rancid voice from the  past jerked the slumberer’s head
to alert. The sound of  a puttering Audi pulling into the station mingled  with the gruff words. Its
driver unfolded from his car,  hoisted the deposit box onto his extended belly  and shoved it in the
trunk of the  smoky old rattletrap. Finally, when the  car had pulled away, the old  woman let out a
breath, stood, cocked an ear to the busy street, and raised her arm to hail an approaching bus.

Fifteen  minutes  later  a  single  vagrant  sat  perched on  a  bench  in  front  of  American  Bio
Medical–wide suspenders hiking  up tight trousers, a  Yankees baseball cap pulled down  low on his
melon-sized head–and watched the Audi pull to a  stop on Carson Street, in front of Eddie’s gym.
A  massive black  man, legs  like  tree trunks,  swayed from  the glass  door  at the  front of  the
dilapidated brick building. He collected the metal  mailbox from the Audi’s trunk, tucking it like
a tinker-toy under  his balloon-like arm before returning  to the gym. After locking  the glass door
behind him,  he sauntered down  the hallway, past  the bench presses  loaded with lead  weights, and
rapped his imposing  knuckles on a thick  metal door leading to  the basement. In a  few seconds the
door opened. Two skinny  arms protruded and pulled the box into the  darkness of the stairwell. Then
the door banged  closed. The mailbox was placed  under a naked light bulb in  the cluttered basement
room. The dim  bulb, hung by two  wires fastened to a  rusty nail extending from  a rough-cut wooden
rafter, swung back and forth ever 8 KEN MERRELL

so gently.  The boards  of the ceiling  groaned from the  heavy load  of the monstrous  man, lifting
weights from a bench  above. One of the two men  in the basement slipped a shiny  key into the metal
box and popped the lock open. “I could take him,” he hissed as he scanned the rafters and dumped
the contents of the box on the table.

“Yeah, right! He’d  squash you like a cockroach,  Roy.” The second man shook his  mane of hair
and let out  a guttural laugh. Roy dropped his  hand in his pocket and jerked  it out. The practiced
rattle of tooled  metal and hardened steel  snapped to a stop and  cut the dusty basement  air as it
faded into the  cracks and crevices of the  partially finished room. “Not if I  sliced him.” Roy
held a ten-inch switchblade in his hand, waving it through the shadowy light like it was Excaliber.

“Why don’t you shake that thing at him–I  dare ya’,” the second man scoffed before bending
over the table  to peer through a magnifying  glass. With painstaking precision, he  returned to his
task of putting  the final touches on  the Nevada licence in  his hand. His name  was Ivan Lion–or
Dean Tidwell,  or half  a dozen  other aliases,  depending on  the state  he lived  in at  the time.
“He’ll snap that  blade in half and  shove it down your  scrawny throat. You’ll end  up like a
baby bird with your beak flapping open.”

“I’d cut him first,” Roy boasted.

“Shut up Roy and finish  your work. The place stinks like a barn  and the crap’s seeping through
your teeth.”

His glossy  grin now  dimmed, Roy  folded the  knife and  jammed it  in his  worn jeans.  He mumbled
incoherently as he sorted  and stacked the envelopes along the edges of  the desk, recording numbers
on a yellow legal pad. “I got a pile of ‘em here that ain’t got numbers,” he said aloud.

Ivan peered over his half-rim glasses at the figures  on the yellow pad, then went back to his work.
“Process them the same as you do the others,” he growled.

Roy glanced back and forth between the pile of  tattered mail and the man giving orders, then thrust
the  loose mail  under a  nearby  phone book.  A  few minutes  later he  stood  at the  base of  the
rough-framed basement stairs and  tapped on a closed door. It creaked opened.  When the bright light
from the  room flooded across  Roy’s face, his  thin lips widened  into a grin.  “Jackie!” His
wolfish eyes scanned his prey in a lustful

THE IDENTITY CHECK

9

gaze. “How ‘bout you and I . . .”

“Stuff it,  creep!” A  woman’s gruff,  baritone voice boomed  from beyond  the door.  Then two
shapely arms reached out and yanked away the mail he held in his arms. Roy propped his elbow against
the wall and  dropped one foot behind the  other in a casual stance. The  woman’s verbal onslaught
took on an even more vicious tone. “You’re so stupid–you just don’t get it, do you?” Then,
just as  abrupt as the exchange  had begun, the door  slammed against its hinges.  Roy’s lecherous
grin stretched to  reveal a hint of dimples in  his cheeks. Peeling his pride from  off the wall, he
pranced back to his desk like a barnyard cock. “She wants me. I’m telling you–she wants me.”

“Sure . . .” Ivan mumbled. “Whatever you say, Roy.”

The skinny  man toppled into  the squeaky chair,  his back toward Ivan,  and raised the  phone book.
I’ll show them, he thought as he peeled open the envelopes. I’ll show them all! 10 KEN MERRELL

ONE

GREG HART SLUMPED  behind the wheel of his  ‘72 Olds NinetyEight, which reeked from  the stench of
dogs and rotting  upholstery. His dark, greasy hair  fell down over his high forehead  in tufts each
time he  nodded forward,  drifting closer to  a drunken  stupor. Clear, thick  fluid oozed  from his
pointed nose–a rather grotesque appendage that flattened and widened as it spread down on his grim
face. The residue clumped  to his unshaven, deeply creased upper lip,  then coursed sideways, making
its way  down over  his chin to  form long, rubbery  strings on  his grungy designer  shirt. Between
drinks he raised his  head, blinked his dark, bloodshot eyes, and combed  his filthy fingers through
his stringy hair to pull it away from his  face. Muttering aloud the jumble of words scrawled on the
columns supporting the overpass, he desperately fought to stay awake. Vulgar utterances slipped from
his wet lips between each gulp from the bottle he kept wedged tightly between his legs.

He’d long since  stopped calling on God for  help in overcoming his problems. His  response to the
summons and complaint  filed by his estranged wife’s  attorney had been due three  days ago. There
would be no answer. His third–and last–attorney  would no longer represent him without a minimum
$20,000 retainer, an amount that wouldn’t even cover his past-due bill.

The  lime green  wreck was  parked under  the I-15,  Rio Grande  bridge, the  dirty recesses  of the
city’s arm-pit. The dim light of a nearby street lamp burned at his blurry eyes as a passing train
rattled the rusty doors on the car and shook the ground as it rushed on its way, thundering past him
under the bridge. Earlier that morning he’d stopped by the house to drop off his final paycheck so
the children could eat. Linda had told him the  trustees’ sale of their home would be on the front
steps of the county courthouse by ten the following morning. The near-empty bottle of vodka was only
the second thing he’d

THE IDENTITY CHECK

1 1

stolen since he was 14. Those days were 25  long years behind. His thoughts turned to his father: he
wondered if  the old man had  yet discovered that  he’d stolen the  gun. Then the tears  welled up
again and spilled  down his cheeks, the alcohol  apparently refusing to give him  the courage he’d
hoped it would. He coaxed  another sip from the bottle and waited for its  full effect to take hold.
He’d never been  a heavy drinker, and each swallow  burned less and less as he  drew closer to the
last. Car  tires, commanded by  drivers clearly oblivious  to his pain,  whizzed by on  the concrete
bridge above, thumping the joints in an echoing, rhythmic tone as they advanced and passed overhead.
Glancing  down at  the pistol  resting on  the passenger  seat, partially  obscured by  his wrinkled
jacket, Greg’s eyes  began to droop and  his thoughts wandered. He  needed to do it  now before he
drifted  into an  inescapable sleep.  Suddenly there  came a  knock at  the driver’s  side window.
“Excuse me,”

interrupted a  muffled voice. “Do  you know who  owns that  old car?” A  young man in  his early
twenties, bent over, his face nearly pressed up against the smudged glass, was peering into the car.
A pair of deep blue eyes strained in the  dim street light to see inside. Greg’s response was slow
as he turned over the ignition key to roll down the power window just a crack.

“What?” came his slurred  reply. The brunt of the young man’s ice-blue  stare shifted from the
broken man  and honed in on  the gun. Then, hit  by the blast of  rank air wafting from  the car, he
pulled  back  several  inches  to  escape its  staggering  force.  His  face–and  stomach–turned
momentarily sour.  Recovering somewhat, the  fellow pointed to  a beat-up, rusted-out  ‘65 Mustang
parked in front of the Olds and repeated, “That car; I was wondering if you knew who owned it.”

Greg wagged his head  and reached to cover the butt  of the gun as, in the  cloud of drunkenness, he
fumbled for the “up” button. “No,” he grumped.

“This car  you got  might be a  classic some day,”  the young  man pressed, his  voice crackling
through the narrowing gap. “How much would you take for it?”

Greg hesitated,  then brought the  window back down  a bit. “Are you  nuts? This’s a  piece ‘a
junk.” His words were garbled as they tripped off his thick tongue.

The young  man’s stubborn enthusiasm caught  the drunk off guard.  “Is it running the  big block
four-fifty-five, or a small block three-fifty?”

“I don’t have a clue what your talkin’ ‘bout, kid.”

12 KEN MERRELL

“The motor . . . is it a big block or small?”

The furrow in Greg’s forehead deepened. “Don’t know; leave me alone.”

“If you’ll let me  take a look at the serial  number on the dash, I can tell.  If it’s a small
block, the motor’s worth at least five hundred bucks.”

In truth, Mitch Wilson didn’t want the car, or the motor. But it was clear what the inebriated man
was about to  do. Mitch’s mind winced as  it raced back to a  time 16 years earlier when  he was a
happy-golucky seven-year-old–back to a day that had  changed his life forever. His father had been
a builder in Vegas,  constructing mostly upper-end homes. The recession of the  eighties had hit him
hard. Having funded the  building of seven or eight expensive spec houses,  he’d found that he was
unable to sell them and recoup his money. Over  the ensuing months the interest had choked him until
he finally snapped from the pressure. To make matters  worse, young Mitch had been the first to walk
in on the grisly scene.

Mitch blinked hard as he tried to shake the  last reflected glimpse of his father from his mind. The
spectacle, however, didn’t budge, continuing to slam  against the battered door of memories he had
tried to  keep tightly  shut. “Maybe  you could  buy your wife  a nice  gift and  get you  a cheap
motorcycle to get  around on,” he blurted out. Greg  just stared at the young man,  a puzzled look
creasing his face. “The ring–I noticed you’re married. . . . Have any kids?”

Greg lowered his gaze to take in the wedding  band clamped onto his finger. “She filed for divorce
. . . been more than a month.”

“And how many  children do you have?” The  moment it escaped his lips Mitch  feared he’d asked
the wrong question.

“What makes you think I got kids?”

“You look like you’d be a good dad.”

“Two . . . two kids.”

“You have any pictures?”

“Listen, kid, I got something I’ve gotta do. Just get out of here and leave me alone.”

“Show me  their pictures . .  . and I’ll  leave you alone,” he  lied. Greg wasn’t one  to be
rude. “If  you promise  to leave,”  he sighed,  reaching to  his back  pocket, fumbling  for his
wallet.

“I’ll leave  as soon as we’re  finished. If you’ll roll  down the window, I’ll  give you a
hand with that.” Greg again hit the button to the auto-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

1 3

matic window, which descended and stopped just six inches from fully open. The door remained locked;
Mitch nonchalantly scanned the  opening to see if he could get  through. His six-foot-two, 195-pound
body would fit,  but could he move fast enough  to snatch the gun before the  drunk did? Greg folded
back his wallet and eased  it toward the open window. At that moment  Mitch lunged forward, one hand
seizing the wallet and the other to introduce himself, latching onto the listless man’s wrist.

“Mitch Wilson,” he breathed as casually as  his voice could manage. Mitch hadn’t expected such
a struggle.  Greg came to life  as Mitch launched himself  through the partially opened  window. His
belt buckle  hung up on the  glass as his  feet kicked awkwardly, almost  as if he were  swimming in
midair. His  long arms groped blindly  for the gun; the  man struggled to reach  it first. Mitch’s
fingers  found its  mark as,  covering the  trigger with  two fingers,  he wrenched  it free  in his
viselike grip.

The blast  of a train  whistle ricocheted back  and forth between  the overpass walls,  drowning out
Greg’s cursing. Mitch felt the window roll down  under the unbalanced load of his body, now mostly
in the car. Somehow the drunk had managed to  open the car door, swinging his flailing foe away from
the auto. With the hand  he’d been holding onto the drunk, Mitch thrashed  to his left and latched
onto  the  steering  wheel, yanking  himself  back  toward  the  automobile. But  in  the  meantime,
Greg–remarkably spry  for the state  he was in–had  slipped out of  the car. Mitch  struggled to
lower the  window and drag himself  from his precarious position.  Glancing around to see  where the
drunk had gone, he spied the droop-shouldered figure making for the train tracks.

A second train, slow-moving, blasted its signal again  as Greg staggered onto the tracks and blinked
up into its lights. Mitch didn’t stand a chance  to reach him before the train would meet him head
on. Reflexively he turned his head, protecting himself against the inevitable gruesome jolt of steel
on flesh.

And  then,  in  the  echoing  cacophony  around him,  unfolded  in  Mitch’s  mind  a  slow-motion,
frame-by-frame scenario.  Having turned away,  his gaze fell  on the wallet,  which lay open  on the
ground. The  street lamp under the  bridge cast a  surreal, eerie, luminescent glow.  Mitch’s eyes
took in the  photo, revealing a family of four  . . . a boy who  appeared to be nine or ten  . . . a
little girl,  probably five or six.  Like the samples one  sees on the walls  of photograph studios,
they stood  in front  of their  proud parents,  smiling for  the camera–the  perfect, all-American
family. 14 KEN MERRELL

Then the  train’s horn  blared again,  a long  and piercing  blow that  disengaged Mitch  from his
dreamlike state.  He spun  around once  more to witness  the jumbled  display. Massive  steel wheels
locked and screeched as they sparked and skidded down the smooth metal rails. Even as Mitch bent and
picked up the wallet, he could see the wild look in Greg’s eyes, eyes now trained on him, fixed on
the young man holding  his wallet. Between blasts of air coming from  the train’s horn, Mitch felt
the air rise from his lungs in a discordant, caterwauling scream. “Your son!”

In that split second, Greg crouched, apparently in a bid to lunge free. Mitch looked on in horror as
the drunk pushed off from  the heavy metal locomotive as the force of  its onslaught hurled him from
the tracks.  He disappeared from  view in the  far shadow of the  hundred-car train, the  big engine
sliding past,  coming to rest another  300 feet down  the track before  the heavy load rattled  to a
complete stop.

The train’s engineer scrambled down  to see what was left of the man  who moments before had stood
on his track. The big  engine bearing down on its victim had obscured  his view; the entire sequence
of events had happened too fast. Mitch’s eyes locked onto those of the engineers, then both peered
out into the  darkness, between rail cars, toward  the opposite side of the  locomotive. The drunken
man had disappeared from view.

“He jumped off!” Mitch  shouted over the rumbling engine. The  old engineer’s glassy-eyed gaze
now centered on  the objects gripped tightly in  Mitch’s hands: a gun and a  wallet. “You better
give those to  me, son,” he demanded,  stretching out a hand.  “You don’t need to  make it any
worse than it already is.”

Mitch stared  dumbly down at the  gun, then back  at the shaken  engineer. A second man  was running
toward them  from the locomotive. He  knew exactly what the  engineer was thinking. And  it wasn’t
goingto happen to him  again. Mitch instinctively stuffed the wallet in his  front pocket and jammed
the gun under his belt. He turned and pulled himself up between two rail cars, then, hopping down on
the other side, ran–just ran. A beautifully restored  ‘66 red Chevy Camaro was parked behind the
old Mustang; he jumped in and sped away,  squealing tires knifing into the still night. The heavyset
engineer struggled to squeeze through the cars. He couldn’t get over in time to see the sporty car
pull from under the bridge, out of sight.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

1 5

Mitch gunned the  car several blocks down the  deserted road, then turned, going south  on Las Vegas
Boulevard. His heart raced as he wondered–as he had thousands of times before–what could cause a
man so much pain that he was willing to die by his own hand, leaving his loved ones behind to suffer
the loss. Spinning the wheel to the left, he veered  down a dark street, where he pulled to the curb
and opened the  wallet again. “Greg Hart,”  he read on the driver’s  license. The accompanying
address indicated he lived in a ritzy part of town near the country club.

Leaning back in the seat  of the car, Mitch closed his eyes and allowed the  flood gates to open. It
had been a cool winter day, at least by Las  Vegas standards. He was seven years old. His mother had
picked  him up  from school.  His second  grade class  had just  finished the  final performance  of
Scrooge–and  his dad  hadn’t made  it. Mitch,  disheartened, had  played Marley,  the ghost  who
visited Scrooge  in chains. He’d  desperately wanted his father  there–to feel his  approval, to
sense that he cared. When the garage door didn’t  open, his mother had parked on the driveway. The
two of them stepped onto the front porch. Mitch, the corners of his mouth turned down, waited as his
mother  unlocked the  fine, carved  wooden  door leading  to  the hallway  of the  6,000-square-foot
custom-built home. She suggested he call his dad  using the two-way radio in her husband’s office.
Mad at him for not having shown up, Mitch refused. After all, his dad had promised.

His mother had paused in the kitchen to read  a note from his father, while Mitch plodded on through
the house to the garage to see if he could open the door, his young mechanical curiosity getting the
better of  him. His dad’s  pickup truck was  parked in  its usual spot,  and after turning  on the
light, the boy noticed  his father slumped over the wheel, seemingly  asleep. Mitch promptly trudged
down the steps to give  his dad “what for.” His mother had come to  the doorway and screamed the
same moment Mitch opened the truck’s door.

Mitch drew a deep breath before he opened his eyes. The putrid smell filling his nostrils was almost
as thick as it had been 16 years earlier.  He leaned forward and brushed the stinging tears from his
face, once again slamming  the memories behind the battered door of his  mind. Then he clambered out
of the car and opened the trunk. Within three minutes he’d replaced his car’s license plate with
one he  conveniently kept inside.  He knew it  was against the  law, but rationalized  using someone
else’s plates by telling himself he’d have to stay out of 16 KEN MERRELL

trouble or lose his car to impound. He could trade the car for one of his others, but didn’t think
the old engineer had seen what he was driving. He’d wait to make the switch until the weekend when
he saw his grandpa. Climbing  back behind the wheel, he slipped the gun and  wallet in the glove box
before firing up the engine. Glancing at the gauges, Mitch remembered where he had been going in the
first place. The gas gauge read below empty. He turned onto Washington Street and headed east toward
Rancho  Drive. It  was late,  and Bino  might have  already headed  home. Still  he went.  Mitch had
entrusted  Bino with  selling his  cars. How  he did  it Mitch  wasn’t sure,  but Bino  could sell
electric heaters on a hot  summer day. Mitch was anxious to get home. He  hadn’t seen or talked to
his wife, Stephanie, all day. She had scheduled a visit with the obstetrician at four to see if they
had misjudged her due date.  He couldn’t stand to be in the room while  she was being examined. He
turned ill and  defensive every time he  saw the doctor get  close to his beautiful  bride. Stef had
told him she didn’t mind  a bit that he didn’t go with her. She was  too polite to tell him what
she really  thought: that he was  being childish, not to  mention rude. He probably  could have gone
today,  since a  sonogram  isn’t an  invasive  procedure.  Stephanie had  promised  to bring  back
pictures–if, that is, the technician or doctor would give them to her.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

1 7

TWO

KITTY’S ESCORT SERVICES.  The words, lettered in  gold leaf, arched across the  tinted plate glass
window on the front  of the old brick building. Antique copper light  fixtures, suspended high above
the window, cast soft, inviting rays against the glass that reflected golden beams of light onto the
yellow-brick sidewalk leading up  to the door. The larger of two men,  standing at the door, pressed
his thick, rough finger on the bell and pulled at the collar of his heavily starched shirt, buttoned
high on his neck, as he shifted nervously on his feet.

“Good evening,” a soft voice crackled over the intercom. “Do you have an appointment?”

“It’s Frank,” the big man in his mid-twenties announced huskily.

“Frankie, what a treat,” the voice lured. “Is your visit business or pleasure this evening?”

“Knock it  off,” scoffed  the man in  his roughest,  talking-out-of-theside-of-your-mouth Jersey
accent. “I got a guy looks like the picture.”

Frank  Domenico  shifted  his  weight  again,  making  his  Italian  patent  leather  shoes  squeak.
Perspiration ringed his white shirt at the arms and drooped down his back.

“We’ll be right down,” the woman teased.

“A hundred  bucks, all the drinks  I want, a  woman, and a  change of clothes?” the  smaller man
whined, hitching up his  shabby pants and wiping a shirt-sleeve across his  runny nose. Frankie shot
the pathetic vagrant a pitiless glance. Nameless, faceless, hidden behind months of beard, dirt, and
years of sorrow, the slouched figure next to him flinched and stepped a half-step away.

Frank’s threatening, whispered response came from deep within his throat. “Just do like the lady
says. Act like you’re the richest man in Vegas tonight.”

“Fine by me–but I want my hundred ‘fore I start.”

Frank reached deep in the pocket of his tailored slacks and pulled 18 KEN MERRELL

out a  clip of cash as  the door swung  open. The vagrant turned  momentarily to stare at  the long,
slender legs  of his new  hostess, then his  eyeballs wheeled  back to focus  on the cash  Frank had
stripped from his wad.

“This must be Mr. Glover, from California,” the hostess said, fingering in one hand the photo of
a distinctly  different man.  She reached  out and  put her other  arm around  the man’s  neck and
welcomed him in. “Would you like a drink, Mr. Glover?”

The vagrant snatched the cash from Frank, gave him  one last ‘this is too good to be true’ look,
stepped  into the  parlor and  took a  filled champagne  glass from  the woman.  “You can  call me
whatever you want lady,” he gurgled.

“I’ll be back in an hour,” Frank said, pushing the door closed. The hostess, Kitty, pushed her
head back out the opening. “This mess will take us at least two,” she whispered.

“Vinnie wants him out by 11:00.”

“This guy’s blood’s so thin he’ll be able to  stay on his feet all night. What’s it matter
if it takes one hour or two?”

“I do what Vinnie says. I’ll be back in an hour.”

“Frankie, that’s what I like about you, you big hunk. That raw obedience of yours. You come back
in  an hour  like  Vinnie told  you,  and  if this  guy  isn’t ready  I’ll  personally keep  you
entertained.”

Frank squirmed again. “Is this a new look?” Kitty asked.

“Vinnie tol’ me I have to look more like a businessman,” he blushed.

“Says we ain’t in Jersey no more.”

“Well, I like it. You don’t look like such a thug. Now hurry back, you big brute.”

Frank squirmed again and tugged at his shirt collar. “Vinnie’ll ...”

“Vinnie-shminnie. . . . He doesn’t need to  know a thing.” Kitty scrunched her nose and purred
as Frank turned  and walked away. Mitch pulled into  the old Husky station on Rancho  Drive, got out
and lifted the nozzle from the pump. Peering toward the pay booth, he noticed Bino was working later
than usual. The tall slender figure inside slowly rose  to his feet and slid open the teller window.
Billows of smoke poured from  the small booth, spilled down its grimy front  and drifted to the west
on the warm  desert wind. “I got that shipment  of stereos . . . you’ve  been waiting for,” he
announced between labored breaths.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

1 9

“They hot?”

“I never sell  anything that’s hot,” Bino chuckled  in his raspy voice, the smile  on his face
causing waves of rough, creased skin to fold like a fan from the corners of a set of whimsical eyes.

“Right.”

“These units were from a closeout buy. . . . It’ll help sell that car you just got finished.”

“The GTO?”

“I’ve got a buyer for it . . . if you’ve got her ready.”

“They put tires and wheels on today. You got the players?”

“Right here.” Bino lifted a box to the window.

“My cards are maxed–can I charge it?”

“Your credit’s good here, kid.” The man began  to cough. He lifted the oxygen hose that draped
from his weathered neck up to his long nose.

Mitch frowned. “I thought you said you were going to quit that habit ‘fore it killed you.”

Bino’s throaty reply came between coughs. “Couldn’t . . . get past the . . . second day.”

Mitch’s casual gaze came to rest on a point over his friend’s shoulder. Then he got to the heart
of his visit. “You think you can find out about someone for me?”

“Who is it–what do you need to know?”

Mitch rattled off the license number and address by heart. “His name’s Greg Hart. I just stopped
him from blowing his brains out under the overpass, by the interchange.”

Bino nodded.

“He was driving an Olds . . . expired  tags from ‘91.” Mitch repeated the plate number as Bino
scribbled it down on a notepad. “I’m more than a little curious why he wanted to die.”

“This is no small order. . . . You’ll owe me . . . big-time for . . . this one.”

Mitch didn’t mind. It was important, and he and Bino always did each other favors. Bino Dalton was
the best-connected two-bit fence  he’d ever met–not that he’d known any other  men at all like
the  bigtalking chain-smoker  with  the perpetual  listening  ear. Make  that  two impressive  ears,
gargantuan appendages that doubled  back and rested tightly against his black  hair, which went from
bushy to sparse to completely 20 KEN MERRELL

missing on  top. Instead,  sun spots  dotted the  crown of his  head. He  kept a  thin, well-trimmed
moustache that ran across his wide smile, extending  past his slight lips from one wrinkled cheek to
the other.  He reminded  Mitch of Inspector  Clouseau from  the popular Pink  Panther movies  of the
‘70s. “Bino”

wasn’t his real name, but no one cared. He’d picked up the moniker somewhere during his drinking
and gambling  days, and somehow it  stuck. He claimed  to be reformed  now, and never drank  or even
dropped so much as  a dime in a machine anymore.  The hard life had taken its  toll, though, and his
degenerating 47-year-old  body looked  more like  it had  seen 70  extraharsh Siberian  winters. The
doctors said he wouldn’t last three more years unless he quit smoking.

Mitch never bought anything from Bino that he couldn’t get a receipt for. Borrowed plates were one
thing; stolen property was out of the question. He’d probably have to fix a dent or tune up one of
Bino’s friend’s cars for this favor. Again, no big deal.

The pump  stopped at $32.15. “If  you’re tight, I’ll put  the gas . .  . the gas on  a ticket,
too,” Bino offered.

“Stephanie gets paid in two days. I’ll pay you then.”

“Nah . . . you  can wait if you want . . .” said the  con artist, catching his breath, “‘til
you sell  the goat” (referring to  the Pontiac GTO). He  slid a charge slip  and a pen out  on the
counter. “When do you go to finals?”

“Next week, if I can afford it.” Mitch popped open the trunk to put the stereo away.

“Why  don’t you  bring  the car  by  tomorrow–about four.”  Bino sucked  in  a deep  breath.
“I’ll tell my contact to come and look at it then.”

“Okay.” Mitch slammed the trunk shut, hooked the nozzle  back on the pump and hopped back in his
car. “See you tomorrow.”

For the past several weeks he’d been working late in Mike Hutchings’

Body & Paint to get the Camaro finished. Mike had  opened the new business on the north side of town
just two months earlier.  The two of them enjoyed their business relationship.  For every hour Mitch
worked on Mike’s jobs, he got an hour or two of free shop time. It was better than driving back to
his grandpa’s place near  Logandale, an hour away. And Mike got the  benefit of having a part-time
employee without all the attached paperwork and taxes.

Besides, Mitch could do more work in three hours  than any full-time man, which was why he was going
to vocational finals. Earlier in the year, at

THE IDENTITY CHECK

2 1

the insistence of his body shop instructor, he’d  decided to enter the state competition, which he
won, hands-down. No one even came close to his incredibly high scores in time and quality. Still, he
only took the body shop class for an easy credit and  for a handy place to work on his cars. If only
he’d taken high school seriously. Then he would  have been accepted into a real college instead of
a vocational school. He’d been a 4.0 student–until,  that is, he’d messed with the wrong girl,
a girl who wanted fast  cars, a good time, money and the basketball  captain’s heart and hand. She
hadn’t cared about her future,  nor his. It had taken the convenience store  arrest to wake him up
to what his grandpa had been telling him all along.

Anyway, no sense  in worrying about the past; he  had a promising future to look  forward to. He was
going to be the best dad any kid ever had.

The  older, principally  white neighborhood  was well-marked  with gang  graffiti, broken  glass and
littered yards.  A half-dozen  young male  juveniles with baggy,  low-hanging pants,  tank-tops, and
bandanas tied around their  heads milled aimlessly about. A few others rested  their haunches on hot
rods parked  near the entrance to  the cul-de-sac where Mitch  and Stephanie lived. Several  of them
raised their arms, flashing their fingers in defiant,  heckling gestures as Mitch drove past. In his
youth he’d never been party to such rudeness.  His grandpa would have broken his finger–or so he
threatened–if he’d ever seen him raise his hand in such a vulgar display.

Mitch smiled and  returned the gesture as he  revved the engine on the Camaro,  squealing its tires.
Somehow he’d made good enough friends with the  punks that the one-fingered salute was more like a
gang greeting than an insult.

He pulled  up to the  end of the  driveway, pressed  the automatic door  opener, and eased  into the
two-car garage.  Other than  low rent, it  was the only  thing about  the house and  neighborhood he
liked. The crime rate ran high, but the price was right, providing them a house with a garage at the
cost of a cheap apartment.  Without the garage his cars would never make  it in such a neighborhood.
The GTO  parked inside shone, its  new chrome wheels glistening  in the reflected glow  of Mitch’s
headlights. Stef  had picked it  up after her  appointment, but she  didn’t much like  driving his
muscle cars. She said the crummy guys were always hitting 22 KEN MERRELL

on her when she went by in them. He knew she preferred her plain white Ford Escort.

Mitch hit the  switch on the visor and the  double door began to lower. The  old motor sputtered and
slowed as he stepped to the rear of the car and lent a helping hand. It just didn’t have the power
to close all  the way. He’d recently tightened the  lift springs in hopes that they  had just been
too  loose to  move  the heavy  wooden  door, but  now the  extra  torque on  the  springs kept  the
under-powered motor from doing the job. One more  thing the landlord refused to repair. As he scaled
the two steps to the  kitchen door, Mitch decided he wouldn’t tell his  wife about his run-in with
Greg Hart. She  didn’t like him going to  Bino’s, either, so that information  would also remain
unspoken.  Stephanie sat  at the  kitchen table  reading a  parenting book  when he  stepped in  the
doorway. She looked up at him, her soft eyes gleaming. There was a warmer glow about her than usual.

“Hi,” she greeted in a hushed tone.

“You look beautiful.”

Her long  blonde hair brushed the  tabletop. She reached  up and drew  it back behind her  ear. “I
tried to call Mike’s place, but his line’s been disconnected.”

“He’s had a rough go of it. Says he’s going to pack it up. . . . What’s up?”

“Come and sit down,” she grinned. Her  perfectly straight teeth sparkled, matching the whites of
her big, half-moon-shaped eyes. Mitch was never more in  love with her than he had been the last few
months. Even though  her skinny little waist  was disappearing, she’d never  seemed more alluring.
She drew two dark images  from the back of her book and laid them gently  on the table. “Would you
like to meet your children?”

Mitch grappled to read her face to see what  she meant. “You mean my son?” He was convinced they
were going to have  a boy; she was sure it  was a girl. The running argument of  “he says son, she
says  daughter” had  acted as  a source  of good-natured  teasing ever  since they’d  learned of
Stephanie’s “motherly way”  condition. Stephanie’s eyes cast a  mischievous twinkle. “Your
daughter, too.”

Dumbfounded, Mitch managed  to find a seat. For  some reason his eyes refused to  focus. He didn’t
have a clue  what he was looking at,  anyway. After a few  awkward moments, he glanced up  and, in a
state of shock,

THE IDENTITY CHECK

2 3

mumbled, “We’re having two?”

Stephanie nodded,  her smile wide  and full, accentuating her  sensuously rounded cheeks.  “Let me
show  you.” Her  index  finger traced  along the  lines  of the  first  image as  she beamed  with
excitement. “This head  belongs to your son. . .  . See his tiny hands and  feet?” Then, using a
pencil she pulled from behind  her right ear, she made a series of  light arcs, outlining the blurry
shapes. Mitch watched  in complete fascination. Under  her direction, he could see  what he hadn’t
seen before. “Down here are his male parts.” She pointed to a lighter area.

“Whoa!” he gasped. “Quite the kid.”

“Stop  it,”  she  chided, delivering  a  loving  slap  on  his  shoulder. “And  this  is  your
daughter,” she continued, pointing to the second  image, “–at least the doctor thinks it’s a
girl. He couldn’t identify any external organs; it’s possible they’re just hidden.”

Mitch swivelled his head 90 degrees to the side, peering over at his wife, then returned his gaze to
the two negatives. “She’s upside down.

. . . Are these her feet or his?”

“Probably his.”

“I was  going to say, that  would be one heck  of a position to  have to stay scrunched  up in.”
Mitch  took in  a deep  breath, still  absorbed in  the images,  soaking in  the wonder  of it  all.
“Twins! Are they identical?”

The corners of  Stephanie’s mouth hiked, her  eyebrows lifted, and her eyes  locked onto Mitch’s
face to see if he’d in fact thought through  his question. “A boy and a girl?” she questioned.
Mitch shrugged and pulled a face–as if he’d just  caught a whiff of rotten eggs. “I guess that
would be impossible.”

Stephanie smiled  and nodded.  “To tell  you the  truth, for a  split second  I wondered  the same
thing.” Again she peered  through the twofoot void between them as Mitch  stared down once more at
the images, a distant  look in his eye. For a  full minute the two of them sat  in silence. She knew
what he was thinking, and wished she could help. Mitch  had always longed for a family of his own, a
father and mother with whom  he could share the joyous news. He wanted to be  the best dad the world
ever knew. At length, she could hold back the question no longer. Placing her slender hand gently on
his, she caught his gaze with her hazel eyes.“What are you thinking?”

His soft smile met hers. “I couldn’t ask for anything more. I have a 24 KEN MERRELL

gorgeous wife who’ll soon give me two children of my own. . . .” His thought drifted off. “And
how are you doing?” He knew she wished her relationship with her own parents was different, too.

“I wish I could call them . . . let them know.”

“So let’s do it. The worst they can do is tell us to get lost.”

“I can’t; I don’t think I could stand the rejection again.”

Mitch studied the angles of her angelic face. An elusive, transparent sadness seemed to seep through
the beauty. Stephanie’s parents  lived in a ritzy part of town. They’d  threatened to disown her
if she had anything more to do with the  boy from the junkyard. Unlike their daughter, they’d been
unable or  unwilling to  see past  Mitch’s rough  edges. She’d first  met him  at a  high school
varsity basketball game, where, though still a Junior,  he was captain of the visiting team. She was
the squad leader  of the home-team cheerleaders. They’d  bumped into each other again  a few hours
later at a  local hamburger joint, some smutty girl  hanging on his sleeve. Though he  tried to hide
it, he’d seemed embarrassed.

A year later, as Seniors, they met again during  the same high school rivalry, but by then Mitch was
no longer on  the team. Stephanie later  had found out he’d been  cut because of his  arrest in an
armed robbery at a Las Vegas convenience store that fateful night a year before. It had all happened
so fast, entirely without warning. Mitch hadn’t known what his friends were up to. He was driving.
They’d stopped  so his friends could  buy a soda–when suddenly  they came racing out,  a case of
beer under each arm, waving  a gun in the air and screaming for him to  take off. Mitch had panicked
and sped away  in his partly-restored Cougar. It  was three days before the police  chief knocked on
his grandpa’s door to make the arrest. In a way, it was actually a relief. The system tried him as
an adult, but because  of his cooperation and spotless record he’d gotten  only six months in jail
and one year probation.  Mitch raised his hand to brush Stephanie’s hair  behind her ear, his eyes
locked on  hers. Gently he reached  back to caress  her neck. Her  face was clean and  inviting; she
rarely wore makeup, her dark eyebrows and long eyelashes hardly needing any help.

“I love you,” he whispered, leaning toward her to  kiss her soft, full lips. She raised her hand
and ran it through his uncombed, short-cropped hair.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

2 5

The  kiss was  warm  and passionate  as  they shared  the  moment. The  violent  squealing of  tires
accompanied by angry yells outside jolted their thoughts back to reality–back to where they lived,
back to the awful ugliness of their neighborhood.

“I’ve got a possible buyer  for the goat,” Mitch announced. “I just need  to put a stereo in
it so I can show it tomorrow. If I can  sell it–and a few more like it–we’ll have enough money
to get out of here and help with school.  You won’t have to work.” Mitch stood and began sorting
through the  mail. Scowling,  he dropped one  credit card application  in the  wastebasket. Another,
boasting a “preapproved 2.9% introductory rate,” he returned to the table. Stephanie clasped her
hands behind her head,  casting him her trademark smile–sly, inviting,  sumptuous. “I was hoping
we could celebrate.”

Mitch didn’t want to hurt her feelings, but the stereo was important.

“Will you wait 20 minutes for me to put in the player?”

“I’d wait all night if I had to,” she said as he stood to leave.

“I won’t be long.” Mitch  guided two fingers into the collar of his  Tshirt and yanked it from
his formed  body. He waved his  other hand back  and forth as if  to cool himself down,  the muscles
rippling  in his  forearm.  “I’ll be  back,”  he assured,  lowering his  voice  an octave  and
punctuating the words as if she hadn’t heard the first time.

“And I’ll be waiting,” she winked seductively.

Mitch’s thoughts  were far from  the routine task  of installing the  stereo. His body  took over,
mechanically navigating through the simple, step-by-step procedure. Instead, his mind traversed back
14 years, coming  to rest on Natalie, the young  therapist who had been assigned to  his case by the
Department of  Human Services after  his father’s death.  He had met  with her several  times. She
helped him sort  out his complex feelings. He’d  always refused to discuss the details  of what he
saw when he opened the door to his father’s truck, and she never forced him to relive that memory.
Natalie had been  his hero. She told him that  someday he’d open the door himself  and let out all
the ugly thoughts–when he was ready to let them go.

His mother had suffered a bombardment of  lawsuits, lawyers, criminal accusations, together with the
overwhelming loss of her husband. Young Mitch, over the ensuing months, had spent more and more time
with his 26 KEN MERRELL

Grandpa Wilson and less with Natalie and his mother,  even starting third grade at a school near his
grandpa’s business. Then after his mother’s  disappearance, Grandpa Wilson was awarded temporary
custody–“Kinship placement,” the  court called it. Even though the  social worker resisted the
placement, citing the grandfather’s wrecking-yard  home as an “undesirable, unfit environment”
in which to raise a boy, the elderly man got leeway as Mitch’s only close living relative.

When his mother suddenly showed up three years later, Mitch wouldn’t have anything to do with her,
or her new husband. Wracked by so much guilt for abandoning her son, she’d finally left him in the
care of his grandpa, never to return.

Grandpa Wilson  was a  bit of an  old-fashioned gent, one  who didn’t  have the slightest  use for
therapists or  anti-depressants. Hard  work, he  preached, was the  best and  only antidote  to such
tommyrot. Hard  work: that’s  what had gotten  him through the  death of  his own wife  five years
before Mitch  moved in. And Mitch  soon had adopted a  likeminded approach, taking on  every project
with a passion.  Hard work–it almost succeeded in  keeping the door of his  memory tightly sealed,
leaving the raw nerves of utter grief and guilt untouched since that dreadful day long ago.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

2 7

THREE

FRANK EASED HIS  CONSIDERABLE bulk down on a  comfortable lounge chair in the dimly  lit parlor. His
interest wandered to the  collection of colorful portraits that adorned the  wall opposite him. From
each stared  a pair  of seductive  eyes backed  by a fabulously  sexy face.  As one’s  eyes wafted
downward, he would behold a perfect body, clothed in stylish, figure-enhancing garb. If the eyeballs
of one  who gazed at  the photo could  be peeled away  from the heavenly  body before him,  he would
notice that beneath the adorned frame hung a  brass plaque. Etched in bold letters was the pseudonym
of the girl, a reference to her individual personality and unique “charms.”

Out of earshot, two of the girls–whose photos garnished the wall–whispered quietly to each other
from around the corner.

“He’s just a big dumb ox, too afraid of Vinnie to ever go through with anything.”

“But what if he did?”

“He won’t. I’m tellin’ you, Kitty’s been  playing games with him for months. Come on–she
said to tease him while she finishes.”

The women  flounced into the parlor,  sliding themselves onto the  couch at each side  of Frank, who
struggled to stand. Rayna, a tall, slender blonde  with beautiful blue eyes, dark and bloodshot from
the drugs–dressed in  almost nothing–fastened a hand on  the man’s chest and the  other on his
thigh,  pressing him  gently  back to  the chair.  “You  don’t got  to  get up  on our  account,
Frankie.” As if to underscore  the point, she swung a leg over Frank’s,  her calf coming to rest
on his lap.

“You just lie back, now.” As she spoke she tried to hide her crooked teeth through her smile.

“Just trying to be a gentleman,” Frank squirmed.

“Gentleman or not, you ain’t nothing like Vinnie. You really cousins?” She leaned in, close to
his face, studying his features. Frank smirked and  nodded in proud acknowledgment. “My dad and 28
KEN MERRELL

his were  brothers, ‘least ‘til his  ol’ man were  whacked. My ol’  man says if I  pay close
attention I might learn a thing or two from Vinnie. He got brains, you know; I only got muscle.”

“And plenty of it.” Rayna, knowing by experience  where to turn her attentions, reached over and
stroked Frank’s arms and chest. Then, motioning to the other girl, she continued, “Frankie, this
is Violet. She’s going to keep you company while I go get dressed.”

“I know  who she is.”  Frank jerked his  boxer-dog chin toward the  wall. “I seen  her picture
before you came in.”

“You be gentle with her–she’s new here.”

“I will.” Frank  placed his big hands  on the couch, as if  he’d been caught with  them in the
cookie jar. His massive chest expanded and  contracted in rapid succession. “Vinnie said I can’t
even touch, or he’ll do me.”

Rayna lifted the hand nearest her and rested it  on his thigh, then angled her body across his broad
chest and  pressed her  lips against those  of her  wild-eyed target. Frank’s  arm flexed  and his
fingers curled up as Rayna leaned into him. Then, mustering every wile in her repertoire, she gently
bit his lower lip, pulled away and breathed, “See, he don’t even know. Besides, a big strong man
like you don’t need to be afraid a’ nobody.”

“I ain’t  afraid!” Frank bellowed  as he  shot up from  the chair, sending  Rayna cartwheeling
away. “I ain’t got no more chances. The ol’

man told me I don’t  do what Vinnie says . . . he’ll whack me.”  He raised his fist to strike,
his eyes bulging, his jaw hardened like granite.

“Frankie,” a voice echoed from the doorway. “You hit my girl, an’

she won’t be presentable.” Frank disengaged his fist  and ran his palm across his short military
style hair  cut. His  menacing glare  raised to  meet Kitty’s, who  stood, hands  on hips,  in the
hallway. Rayna  slithered back  farther out  of Frank’s reach  and Violet  cowered from  the room.
“Frank, why don’t you wait in the car. They’ll be out in ten minutes.”

Frank scratched his scalp nervously and turned across toward the door. Kitty flicked her head to the
side, a wordless cue to  Rayna to go get herself dressed. In ten minutes  Kitty was opening the door
to the  old limousine,  parked on the  curb, ushering into  the back  seat an elderly,  well dressed
gentleman, sporting a new  haircut and a fresh shave. A convention badge  was pinned to his slightly
disheveled suit and a

THE IDENTITY CHECK

2 9

drink was clasped in his hand. Rayna, now dressed  to kill, climbed in beside him and shot a fearful
glance toward Kitty.

“You okay, Frankie?” Kitty  asked, poking her head inside the car.  Frank immediately became the
sorry little school boy, slumped in front  of the principal’s desk. “I’m sorry, Miss Kitty,”
he whimpered.

“I didn’t mean no harm. You don’t need to tell . . .”

“Of  course  not,”  Kitty  interrupted.  “You   just  do  your  job  tonight.  It’s  already
forgotten.” She pressed a billfold into Rayna’s  hand. “The MasterCard’s good for 50; run it
first. American Express  is unlimited. Stop after the  first call for approval. The  others are good
for only about 25 each. I’ll call you when we’re ready to tuck him in for the night.”

Frank pulled away from the curb and soon steered  the vehicle into a space outside of the Tropicana.
Rayna  helped  Mr.  Glover,  the  imposter,  from  the  car  and  headed  for  the  cashier.  Within
moments–after a very  sloppy signature and a quick  stop at the bar–the two  casually made their
way toward the black-jack table with ten grand in chips and new drinks in hand.

Within 20 short minutes,  a span filled with myriad hushed whispers from  Rayna, the fake Mr. Glover
had dropped  $1,500 and change  on the table.  The two  then stopped at  the bar for  another drink,
cashed in the chips and took their winnings to the car. The next stop was the MGM Grand.

By early morning the vagrant, Mr. Glover, was back  on the street with a hundred bucks in the pocket
of his  new suit, snoring  loudly, on his  way to  a terrible hang-over,  while the real  Mr. Glover
snuggled in a hotel bed, dreaming about the sensual evening with one of Kitty’s other girls.

It was before dawn when Mitch eased the gold GTO out from the garage. His early schedule allowed him
the hours he  needed to build his  hotrods. More money was  brought in building muscle  cars than he
ever could dream of  making working a part-time job. The only disadvantages  were the long stretches
between pay  checks. Grandpa’s wrecking  yard still had 20  or 30 restorable  big-dollar vehicles.
Problem was, each seemed to  need more and more work as the better cars  were finished and sold off.
The parts his grandpa didn’t have in the lot seemed  like a snap for Bino to get his hands on. The
decrepit, middle aged fellow never seemed to run out of sources.

30 KEN MERRELL

Bino made  friends faster than  blue lightning. Mitch  had become a  loyal customer after  his first
fillup, the day two years earlier when he’d driven a

‘56 Chevy two-door hard-top in for a few dollars’ worth of gas. Bino had noticed the hood chrome
was missing and  asked if Mitch had been  looking for it. Two days–and  fifty bucks–later, Mitch
had put the final  touch on the black street rod.  And a few months after that,  Bino had helped him
sell  the car  for $24,000,  four thousand  more than  Mitch had  thought he’d  get. And  Bino’s
“fee” had come to only twelve hundred bucks.  Mitch always parked in the automotive storage area
of the  college. He hadn’t paid  for a parking sticker  since his first semester.  The instructors
constantly threatened the students that their cars would be towed, but no one ever followed through.
Anyway, everyone would want  to give this polished beauty the once-over. The  car would easily bring
$28,000–most of  which would go toward  credit card payments. Figuring  in the tires from  the day
before, Mitch was in  debt more than $20,000. He figured that his  system worked alright: he’d pay
cash to  make most of the  initial repairs, then  finish up by using  the cards. The interest  was a
little higher  than at  a bank,  but the  upside was that  he didn’t  need to  deal with  any loan
officers. With the Camaro and the Firebird at his grandpa’s place, he had another

$25,000  in inventory.  The Firebird  still needed  four or  five thousand  more to  finish off  its
interior and to buy some nice tires. The half hour before class allowed enough time to get ready for
his  psychology final.  Mitch quickly  reviewed his  notes, but  didn’t see  anything he  hadn’t
already committed to memory. His perfect grade-point  average just might propel his dream of medical
school back on  track. Mitch planned on attending  the University Nevada, Las Vegas,  and after that
hoped to get into Harvard. Proving himself a good student after his high school disaster was turning
out to be ten times harder than if he’d just done it right in the first place.

Mitch didn’t know  exactly which field he wanted to  go into. He was going to  take a wait-and-see
approach. His grandpa always spoke poorly of the  psychiatric field of medicine. Somehow the old man
blamed the death of his wife on the therapist who had been treating her at the time.

Stephanie, turning sideways then  once more to the front, posed in front  of the full-length mirror,
appraising her changing figure. The waistband  of her underwear stretched markedly downward, dipping
below her bulg-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

3 1

ing tummy. She’d spent the last several weeks trying to convince herself it was hardly noticeable.
Now, in light  of the expectant twins, her  stomach was the first thing she  saw–and had convinced
herself that it was the only thing others saw. Mitch jokingly–or not?–claimed her nose, too, was
elongating  ever so  slightly.  The  selection of  clothing  that still  fit  seemed  to be  rapidly
diminishing. The night before she and Mitch had  discussed using her paycheck to buy a few maternity
outfits. They both agreed that she should, deciding that if the car didn’t sell they could use the
new credit application for a  fifth card and float the payments a bit  longer. Though they were both
ecstatic, the  happy couple  had chosen  to keep  the news  of their  babies a  secret to  avoid the
constant bombardment of ‘How soon are you  due?’ questions that would surely follow. Four months
was long enough. Work began at 9:30, and Stephanie  could hardly wait to tell her best friend Maggie
about the twins and show  off the images. Maggie, intuitive soul that she  was, had guessed that her
coworker was pregnant the first month, but had reluctantly agreed to keep it hush-hush.

After trying on several  outfits, seeking the right combination of  clothes that didn’t accentuate
her bulging  tummy, Stephanie meandered  into the kitchen  and choked down  a small pastry  from the
fridge. Hopefully  the terrible  bouts with morning  sickness were almost  over. Before  leaving for
work, she lifted the trash  bag from the receptacle near the kitchen table  and drew the yellow draw
strings into a  bow before carrying it out  the back door to  deposit it in the bin.  Trash day, she
remembered. As usual,  Al Kostecki, their next-door neighbor,  was standing out on his  porch in his
boxer shorts  with a beer  in one hand,  the other busily engaged  in reaching around  his enormous,
furry gut to vigorously scratch his crotch. When  Stephanie rounded the corner of the garage and saw
him, she  turned away, directing  her gaze instead  out to the street,  hoping to avoid  eye contact
until she could climb into her car.

Al was a squat, no-neck sort, the kind of guy who envisions himself with the chiseled physique of an
Arnold Schwartzenegger. A wide gap separated his  front teeth and a long, grotesque scar intersected
his left eyebrow.  In a menacing and accented  growl, he often bragged of his  body-building days in
Europe. He’d defected from the Soviet Union during the ‘64 Olympic games in Tokyo and petitioned
the U.S. Embassy for asy-32 KEN MERRELL

lum. Amid the hoopla and political rhetoric, he became a short-lived hero in America.

At the close of his allotted 15 minutes of fame, Al had gone on to coach young Olympic gymnastic and
weightlifting  hopefuls–until,  that is,  a  few  of the  young  gymnasts  accused him  of  sexual
misconduct. Al claimed that the charges had ruined  his life–just another plot to send him back to
face similar  charges in Kazakhstan.  According to  him, the Russians  had been furious  that he’d
skipped the country, and so had trumped up charges so they could extradite him. He would be punished
as a traitor, used as an example . . . or so he claimed. Al had ended up in Vegas a few years later,
working as a bouncer in  a topless bar, the Silver Nugget. It was there he’d  met his wife Joan, a
waitress at the  time, and now the sole breadwinner  for the family. A tough old  broad with a deep,
raspy smoker’s voice and  a blonde wig that curled under her round,  pink-painted face and swooped
upward to graze her eyebrows,  Joan worked the evening shift. Like her lewd  husband, she was real a
piece of work. A skimpy outfit betrayed a pair  of wrinkly, sun-worn legs and a bottomless ravine of
cleavage between sagging breasts, the result of age,  gravity, and three baby boys, progeny who over
the years had ripened into rotten and lazy adults, living at home, still sucking their mother dry.

“Goods mornink, gurl,” Al grunted. His thick, guttural inflection sent air whistling through his
teeth as he spoke. He lumbered down the steps to match Stephanie’s quickened pace.

She wanted nothing  to do with the creep.  Once, after he’d wandered over to  talk to Mitch–busy
tuning up  a carburetor at  the time–he’d brushed  up against her  with his shirtless  torso and
remarked on  her shapely, tan legs.  Mitch’s sulphurous glare  went unheeded. A smarter  man would
have been stopped  in his tracks by  such a blatant warning flare.  Problem was, Al was  not a smart
man. The  degenerate continued to leer  at her every chance  he got. Since that  incident, Stephanie
only hung around Mitch when he was working in the  garage, with the door closed. Even so, the men in
the neighborhood were always coming over to borrow a tool or to ask how to fix one gizmo or another.

“Jou look  veautiful today.” Al  shuffled ponderously behind  Stephanie and deposited  his hefty
forearms on the  driver’s door to her Escort.  Stephanie turned toward him and stepped  back a few
feet, out of his reach. “That

THE IDENTITY CHECK

3 3

Mitch  is lucky  man to  own such  veauty.”  His ogling  eyes descended  to take  in her  stomach.
“Sometink different, I see.”

Stephanie, a good five inches  taller than Al, waited for him to step aside.  “I need to go. I’m
going to  be late for work,”  she stammered, folding  her arms impatiently, shielding  against her
bosom the doubledover  images of her babies. Al  reached down and scratched again,  took another sip
from his beer, and leisurely turned away. “Don’t vant dat,” he muttered sarcastically. Then he
pivoted once more, sucked his  gut back up to his chest where it had  been 25 years earlier, gripped
the  empty can  between the  palms of  his  hands and  crushed the  empty cylinder,  top to  bottom.
Stephanie  had seen  him do  it before,  from  a distance,  laughing at  the pathetic  sight of  the
55-year-old  behemoth desperately  straining to  prove his  masculinity and  cling to  his long-lost
youth. Today,  however, up  close and personal,  she didn’t  think his antics  were the  least bit
funny, and shuddered as she punched the automatic door lock and started the engine.

Backing from  the driveway, the  shaken woman cranked  the steering wheel  and turned tail  from the
cul-de-sac. Once  the Escort was out  of sight, Al  let his gut  fall back into place  and sauntered
around back to the garbage bin to deposit  his flattened aluminum relic. Lifting the lid, he glanced
nervously about. Not  a soul in sight. Tugging  at the plastic ties of the  recently deposited trash
bag, he pawed through its  contents. The deed took all of 15 seconds,  whereupon he dropped the lid,
having retrieved an unopened envelope from the top of  the bag. This was his second such find in the
neighbors’ trash–a credit  application that could bring  $200 by the afternoon,  easy beer money
for the weekend to come.

Mitch strolled from  the testing center, confident he’d  aced his last exam. After  the other body
shop students had  finished gawking over the  GTO, he gathered up  his tools and loaded  them in the
trunk. Half an hour later, he parked in front  of Mike’s Body Shop and went inside. Mike Hutchings
was perched on a battered old stool in the  cozy four-bay shop, working on the rear quarter-panel of
a red Ferrari.  A small, stooped man in  his mid-thirties, Mike sported a  grotesque, oversized nose
that flattened out at  the tip as if the cartilage were missing.  Pockmarks documented a severe case
of acne suffered in his youth. Together 34 KEN MERRELL

with his  long, greasy hair parted  just above his  right ear and  combed up and over  his otherwise
shiny pate,  the mechanic could well  have been mistaken for  the original Hunchback of  Notre Dame.
He’d been married  once, but his wife soon  grew tired of his relentless addiction  to hunting. He
kept three stuffed  deer mounts on his tiny office  wall together with dozens of photos  as proof of
his hunting prowess.  Having recently moved from Utah,  Mike had been in business two  months in the
new shop.  His living quarters  still consisted of  a camping trailer out  back. He had  to relocate
because his father  owned the only body shop in  their small town and there wasn’t  enough work to
support them both. He figured that maybe it was for the best. Perhaps he could make something big of
himself in Vegas. Business was booming the first few weeks after Mike opened his doors. Offering big
bucks, he’d hired  away the lead painter from  one of his competitors. The man,  Jimmy, was little
more than a  talented drunk and meth dealer with  a big mouth, who brought lots  of work to Mike’s
shop from his  previous employer. But–wouldn’t you know it–two  weeks later he’d disappeared
and the work dried up. Then two weeks after that, someone on a four-wheeler had stumbled across what
was left of Jimmy, a bullet through the back of his skull, body parts scattered across the desert by
the vultures and coyotes.  The local papers had reported no apparent  motive to the execution-style,
hit-type murder.

One day soon after Jimmy’s demise, Bino had lined Mike and Mitch up when they both happened by the
station. He had introduced Mitch  as the best auto body man in the  state. Mike was understandably a
bit hesitant to have another kid work for him, but decided to let him start on a trial basis. On the
first job, Mitch  had proved himself a  better hand than Mike.  He always seemed to  finish the work
Mike would start  so it would be done right.  They both knew it was Mitch’s  talent, not Mike’s,
that brought in the work.

Mitch approached  from behind, keeping  his distance as Mike’s  powerful arms, holding  a grinder,
stripped the paint  from the metal fender  around two holes in  the side of the  exotic auto. Sparks
flew everywhere, dancing and pirouetting on the floor, then burning out as they skidded to a stop on
the grimy concrete.

“Hey, Mike!” Mitch yelled out in an  attempt to penetrate the grinder’s high-pitched whine and
Mike’s heavy face shield and ear plugs. Finally he resorted to tapping him on the shoulder.

Mike jumped as he released the trigger to the grinder and spun around

THE IDENTITY CHECK

3 5

to see who was there. “Crud! You scared me half to death,” he shouted, the grinding wheel slowly
winding down to a stop. “I didn’t think you’d be in ‘til afternoon.”

“Finished sooner than I expected. Thought I’d fix a few more things on the goat before I show it
this afternoon.”

“Actually,  I  was  hoping  you  could  help  me finish  this  job.  The  owner’s  a  friend  of
Bino’s–needs his ride back by two. No questions. Could be a great account.”

Mitch squinted down at  the partially-ground panel. It looked as if two  bullet holes had penetrated
the side. Plus, a chunk of metal was missing from the fancy wheel. “What happened to it?”

“Like I said, no questions.  The guy gave me enough cash to pay rent. I  ain’t gonna kick a gift
horse in the mouth.”

Mitch couldn’t help  but grin in amusement; Mike  was always botching cliches, or  mingling two of
them together.  It was  quite endearing,  actually–just part of  who the  man was.  Mitch’s easy
expression quickly turned to one of concern. “Can’t you get in trouble?”

“Look, I was trying  to get most of it done so  when you came you didn’t have to  see what I was
doing,” Mike half apologized. “If you’re uncomfortable with it, I’ll finish . . .”

“No way. If you’re lucky you might have it done  by two tomorrow. I’ll take care of it. You go
pick up the paint.”

Mike set out  for the supply store in his  light brown Chevy 4x4 pickup, leaving  Mitch to his work.
Mitch quickly  changed his clothes  and slid into  the low bucket  seat of the  expensive late-model
import. He’d  never owned  anything but old  rebuilts, and  only dreamed of  such a  stylish ride.
Strange–the seat had a lump that was poking him in the small of the back. He wiggled side to side,
then climbed out and tried  to press the seat’s padding back in place  under the black leather. No
luck. Mitch’s drive for perfection compelled him to tip the high bucket seat forward and see if he
could find access into  the upholstery. Locating an open seam and reaching  inside, he encountered a
hard lump, which  he pulled at until it tore  loose. Dropping the object in his  shirt pocket, a few
more minutes’  work of smoothing  the padding produced the  desired effect. After  refastening the
base of the upholstery,  he settled back in the seat  to assure its comfort. It fit  his body like a
well-worn pair of faded jeans.

36 KEN MERRELL

Mitch extracted the offending  object from his pocket and began picking the  melted foam padding off
from its smooth surface. Suddenly he realized what it was he was holding: a bullet.

He climbed out  again and examined the  interior to see how it  could have lodged in  the seat, soon
pinpointing a small hole that corresponded with one in the exterior. Then, leaning across the bucket
seat, he found another  point of penetration near the back corner, where  it had entered through the
leather. He dropped the bullet in his pants pocket  as a novelty, deciding maybe he should have left
things alone, minded his own business.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

3 7

FOUR

STEPHANIE PULLED HER CAR into  a space on the outskirts of the lot before she  made her way to First
Capital Mortgage’s fourstory building.  She worked in an office on the second  floor in the center
of the building, processing employment verifications. The spacious room housed 40 cubicles, normally
manned by  40 employees, mostly  women. But she  worked the late shift  along with six  other women,
processing  verifications received  mostly from  the  west coast  and Hawaii.  The moment  Stephanie
stepped from  the elevator, still tightly  clutching the sonogram  images in her fingers,  she could
hear the wave of chatter coming from down the hall.

Maggie Champion,  Stephanie’s best  friend, occupied a  cubicle across the  narrow hallway  in the
close  quarters  of the  office,  whose  stark  interior didn’t  offer  a  single window  view.  A
62-year-old mother of  four daughters and grandma of  twelve, Maggie was a widow of  five years. Her
husband Richard  had worked as  a music teacher  at one  of the city’s  high schools and  had also
served as a  local ecclesiastical leader. He’d died  in October after falling asleep  at the wheel
driving home from a religious  conference in Salt Lake. Maggie would have been  with him had she not
been tending three of her grandchildren while their parents were away on a business trip. Maggie was
a devout, god-fearing  woman, full of love and  compassion, who played the organ  for her church’s
congregation. Her  tall, slender features and  graying hair lent  her soft, square face  an inviting
countenance of wisdom. Stephanie  looked to her as a caring friend and  couldn’t wait to clock in,
find Maggie, and share with her the wonderful news.

She found Maggie’s cubicle empty, her computer off. How strange

–her co-worker usually arrived several minutes earlier than Stephanie.

“Kirsten.” She craned her neck to peer over the back wall of her work 38 KEN MERRELL

space, where the woman had just hung up from a call. “Did Maggie call in?”

Linda, a workaholic whose  life-goal was to climb the corporate ladder of  success as quickly as her
skinny legs could take her–but was still stuck on the team leader rung–looked up with her tired,
tarantula eyes. “She called  in a few minutes ago. Her grandson fell  against the bed or something
and needs stitches. She’s tending her daughter’s baby while they go to the doctor.”

Upon hearing the news, Stephanie sunk in her seat and hunkered down to her work.

Al Kostecki  slithered from his matted  easy chair, in the  process knocking two beer  cans from the
armrest to the floor. The rolling, near-empty cans  trickled dime-size puddles of foamy fluid on the
soiled carpet. He’d just  finished watching his favorite morning soap–and  downed his last beer.
His youngest son, Andy, stumbled up the stairs from his basement bedroom in his leopard-print bikini
underwear, opened the refrigerator  door and stood staring blankly into  the barren, bright-lit box,
leisurely scratching  at the skin just  beneath his waistband. Truly  a chip off the  old block. His
mother had stopped buying groceries long ago, the  day after she started eating her two square meals
at the  casino. The menfolk would  have to fend for  themselves, since her check  barely covered the
rent, utilities, car payment and insurance.

“You drank my beer,” Andy muttered.

“I put it back dis  afternoon. I got mail.” Al’s eyes lit up and  a sinister smirk creased his
mouth. Andy slammed the fridge and spun around on  his heels. “You lucky sobakc!” he said in his
father’s native tongue. “Whose is it?”

“Dat stupid  kid nex door.” Al  flipped open the Hustler  magazine he held to  expose the credit
card application jammed inside the centerfold.

“I get bonus  on dis von. De  got preliminary vork all  done.” Andy’s eyes rolled  up into his
head. “But he ain’t so stupid. He’s got the finest lookin’ woman I ever seen. Mmm, mmm, them
long legs that go all the way up to her . . .”

“Her what?”  Andy’s revelry was  stopped in mid  revel. Joan stomped  into the room  wearing a
dingy  robe, having  already shed  her makeup  and wig.  “You good-for-nothing  trash are  all the
same!” she barked.

“Can’t look at a woman without your filthy little minds undressing ‘em, can

THE IDENTITY CHECK

3 9

ya?” She  filled the coffee-pot  and set it  on the burner. A  cough–more like a  long, scratchy
hack–exploded from the back of her throat.

“Don’t got  dat problem  vit you no  more.” Al refolded  his magazine,  jammed it in  his back
pocket, snatched up the car keys from atop the table and headed for the kitchen door.

“What the hell’s that  supposed to mean?” snapped his wife, her  stubby fingers curling around
the handle of a dirty coffee mug sitting on the counter top.

Al closed the rickety  screen door between them. “Don’t vant ya take  noting off dat anymore,”
he laughed,  glancing up and down  her stout body.  He knew what  his cruel remark would  bring, and
nimbly stepped from firing range.

Joan’s mouth spewed vulgarities as the projectile  concurrently passed through the torn screen and
shattered into a  hundred pieces across the  crumbling concrete driveway. “And you  better have my
car back by 5:30, you . . .”

Al rolled  up the window on  the old Cadillac El  Dorado and sped off  to burn some of  his wife’s
hard-earned gasoline. He’d heard the same broken record a thousand times over. It was time to make
some money.  In the  meantime, Andy,  unruffled in  the least, had  ambled from  the kitchen  to the
bathroom,  relieved himself,  the door  wide open,  as his  mother wound  down and  returned to  her
coffee-pot.  He  in turn  meandered  back  into  the kitchen,  still  scrupulously  at the  task  of
rearranging himself inside his tight underwear.

“Morning,” he muttered.

“You looking for a job today?”

“Sure, Ma, like  always.” They sat opposite  one another, the rickety metal  table between them,
awaiting their  brew. Joan had tried  to kick the  lazy bunch from  her home several times  over the
years. All had been in vain.

Maggie clocked in at 11:30  and made a beeline for her desk. The seven  team leaders from the office
were at their Thursday morning

“Coaches’ Corner”, the company’s weekly pep talk. One  of the big boys from the Chicago home
office had flown in for the rally; the  hotshot would already be halfway through his presentation by
now. The firm that had designed the new office  sports pep talk was being paid serious money for the
company’s morale boost. What’s more, it was being 40 KEN MERRELL

credited with the office’s  increased sales, much to the workers’  outrage. The average employee
didn’t care much for  the game. The women joked amongst themselves that  maybe the big shots truly
didn’t  know the  real  cause for  the  upturn: clearly,  lower interest  rates  were driving  the
increased market share.

Maggie flipped on  her computer, carefully nestled  the attached headset over  her delicately curled
hairdo,  and fit  the earpieces  snugly over  her ears,  smiling over  at the  glowing mother-to-be.
Stephanie squirmed as she hurried to terminate her current call.

“Well,  when are  you due?”  Maggie whispered  as she  scooted her  chair across  the hall  into
Stephanie’s workstation. Tears began  to well up in Stephanie’s eyes,  a not uncommon occurrence
since the pregnancy began. “What’s the matter, dear?” Maggie consoled. She reached out and put
her arm around her young friend, suddenly worried something might be wrong.

“N-nothing,” stuttered Stephanie, the tears spilling down her face as she folded back the images
of her babies and laid them on her desk.

“I don’t even know . . . w-why I’m crying.”

The older woman gently stroked her friend’s back. A co-worker in the adjacent booth poked her head
over the divider to see what was going on.

“I’m having twins!” Stephanie blurted out–shattering in an instant all office decorum.

Within three minutes  at least 30 women from  the Employment Verification Team were  jammed into the
hallway  near Stephanie’s  cubicle, peeking  over the  dividers  to catch  a glimpse  of the  dark
sonogram images and congratulating the expectant mother.

Meanwhile,  a string  of corporate  suits followed  Linda and  the other  six team  leaders off  the
elevator and down the corridor leading to Employment Verification. The team leaders, having received
such high praise for netting the best stats in the country, were anxious to introduce their staff to
the visiting corporate dignitary–and his companion, the man who gleefully claimed all the credit.

A  swell of  chatter,  plainly heard  in  the hall,  was  replaced by  laughter  and the  boisterous
expressions of women, sharing stories of their own  pregnancies. Then, at once, a hush fell over the
room. It was like some all-powerful being had suddenly reached down and draped a heavy tarp over the
dividers. The throng of embarrassed woman, realizing they

THE IDENTITY CHECK

4 1

were being  stared at by  ten professional-looking men  clad in fine  business suits and  their best
ties, evaporated, each woman fleeing to the safety of her own desk.

Mike stepped  from his  pickup and  locked the  door. The parking  lot of  the Federal  Building was
largely  deserted. Still,  Mike was  anxious. His  face swivelled  side to  side, his  deep-set eyes
scanning the urban horizon.  It appeared he hadn’t been followed.  Technically, the assignment was
finished. The phones  had been disconnected and the  moving rig was scheduled to pack  up the rented
shop gear the following day. Now off duty, he had been reassigned to the Utah office. After flashing
his badge at the security guards, he marched straight into the Las Vegas office of the FBI.

“Agent Hale, you packed?” asked the suit-and-tied agent at the front desk.

“Maybe not. . . . Is Barnes in?”

“I think he’s just getting ready to leave for lunch. Go on back.”

Mike started down the hall  toward the rear when Agent Shane Barnes stepped  from his office to pull
his door shut. Barnes was a real “suit,”

part of  the new generation of  agents hired by the  Federal government. It seemed  almost every new
recruit had a degree as either an accountant or an  attorney. The days of hiring a good cop from the
city  force were  long  gone. For  the few  job  openings in  the  agency, there  were thousands  of
applicants. They could discriminate by hiring only the cream of the crop, and they knew it.

Anyone could see that Mike and Agent Barnes  were polar opposites. Barnes, with his manicured nails,
styled hair and straight, chalkwhite teeth, looked good in  a suit. He was a natural in dealing with
white-collar criminals.  Mike, on the  other hand,  preferred the streets.  Guns were his  weapon of
choice. The only  things Agent Barnes had  ever blown away were a  few cases of clay  pigeons at his
father’s country club back east. He took special  delight in mocking his much less polished fellow
agent for his love of hunting.

“We need to talk,” Mike insisted.

“Hale, I thought you’d have that hunting trailer of yours hooked up to your 4-wheel-drive pickup
and be halfway back to Utah by now,”

sneered Agent Barnes.

“Cut the crap, Barnes. I think we’re back in business.”

42 KEN MERRELL

Barnes shook  his head.  “I know you’d  love to  stay and  keep playing with  the cars,  but the
plug’s been pulled. The case is being shelved.”

“Well, you’d better dust it off.” Mike took a  small plastic bag from his pocket and thrust it
toward his pompous  colleague. “Vincent Domenico dropped  his Ferrari off this morning  for a rush
repair. I pried this from the trunk hinge. Didn’t  take time to find the second one.” He dropped
the bag  containing a contorted, small-caliber  slug into Barnes’ outstretched  hand. “I’d say
we’d better open shop again.”

Barnes’ face  drew tight.  “I’ll notify the  SAC (Special  Agent in Charge).  You get  back to
work.”

“I’ve got the kid on it. Not a chance I could get it right in time.”

“Has he got anything to do with Domenico?”

“No way.  The kid’s  a good guy–practically  refused to work  on the  car. We’ll need  to be
careful he doesn’t get sucked into this thing on entrapment.”

Barnes  frowned. “‘Good  kids don’t  steal beer  at gunpoint,  hang out  with punks  like Bino
Daniels, or drive cars with  illegal plates. Matter of fact, now that I think  of it, Mitch fits the
description of a  possible armed robbery suspect Vegas  police took a report on last  night. If they
had a clue where the victim was, we’d help them bring Mitch in for questioning.”

“Listen, this kid’s no criminal.”

“Doesn’t he drive a red Camaro?”

“Sometimes. Why?”

“Your boy’s got problems. He got off with a wallet last night, at gunpoint. Seems he was chasing
the guy across the railroad tracks and just about got him killed.”

Mike didn’t  believe Mitch  could be  guilty of  anything but trying  to help.  “We need  him if
we’re going  to keep Vincent Domenico  happy. Let’s bring  the kid in  so we can get  this thing
straight and put him on the payroll.”

“No, you keep the ball  rolling. I’ll talk to Vegas PD and tell them  we got a possible. We’ll
keep a close  eye on him. Maybe they’ll keep  their distance while we play it  out. If the kid’s
dirty, we’ll let him hang himself.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

4 3

FIVE

AL DROVE  HIS WIFE’S El  Dorado down the  Strip in the  old part of  town, turned right  on Carson
toward the tracks, then pulled into the alley between Eddie’s Gym and Kitty’s Escort Service. He
looked past the triple-x video store to the line of winos hunched on a wooden bench, waiting to give
plasma at  the American Biomedical Center  and pick up their  15 bucks. Most of  them were regulars,
guys who  gave three  times a week.  Al, too, had  given a  few times–when he  was desperate–but
couldn’t stand the needles.  The bums hung around town until the  desert temperatures climbed into
the 90s, then fled northward  by hopping a slow-moving train. The high brick  walls that ran up each
side of  the alley  between the two  buildings were  plastered with posters  of half-naked  women in
seductive  poses, promising  anything and  everything a  man could  desire “in  the way  of exotic
dancing”.  Food wrappers  and crumpled  newspaper pages  cluttered the  base of  each wall.  These
drifted about in  the stagnant air as the  car passed. Several stinking dumpsters  languished at the
far end of the  alley, waiting to be emptied. Al  pulled up to a metal door  behind the Three Queens
Casino’s parking structure. Enough flecks of white and  gold paint clung to the brick wall to make
out the name: Eddie’s Gym. The owner’s beat-up

‘55 Ford pickup  rested in its usual oil-stained  parking spot, the same place it  had been parked
every  day for  over 35  years. The  smell of  Chinese food,  mingled with  automotive paint  fumes,
lingered in the greasy smoke  that drifted from the rear of the building.  The burly man climbed the
steps and banged hard on the metal door. Looking  to the west, he spotted a filthy woman with matted
gray hair. She paused briefly from scrounging in the dumpster and stared up at him.

“Vut you looking  at?” Al growled, prompting the  woman to step from atop a  plastic milk crate,
place it in her battered shopping cart 44 KEN MERRELL

and scurry away,  the cart’s rattling wheels echoing  down the alleyway. When he  turned back, the
heavy metal door  opened and a black man named  Ty, with the build of a  rhinoceros, filled the void
where the door  had hung. Al squeezed by the  enormous mass of a man, all  the while ignoring Ty’s
blasphemous objections to folks  who used the rear entrance. Then the door  clanked shut behind them
both.

Inside, the men  lumbered down the darkened  corridor. Neither seemed to notice  the repugnant odors
that had struggled to flee the building through the briefly yawning door. At the end of the corridor
Ty stopped in  front of another metal door and  folded his arms across his hairless  chest, while Al
proceeded through a room full of men,  grunting, lifting heavy weights and admiring their sleeveless
or shirtless rippled bodies in the mirrored west wall.

Toward the rear of the room was a roped  off ring, slightly elevated above the floor, upon which two
men vied to beat each other’s brains out. A wizened  old man in a white tank top, his hair flecked
mostly gray,  slouched on a  nearby stool, sluggishly  swinging his clenched  fists in the  air. The
loose folds of skin of his arms flopped about as he shouted out instructions.

Al approached the old man and hollered, “Goot day, Eddie!”

Eddie Alders, eyebrows  raised, turned his lean body to  see who it was that had  broken through his
cloud of concentration. The puffy slits above his eyes  lifted enough for Al to see his dark pupils.
Eddie smiled  a thin,  puckered grin. The  curled-up waxed  ends of his  gray moustache  folded back
toward his swollen cheeks as he cupped his gnarled hand to his ear.

“Wha’dya say?” Then,  as if by instinct, he  swivelled back around to shout  another string of
instructions at the sweaty pair of fighters. Al gave him  a slap on the back and made his way to the
stairs leading up  to the ring. An upper-floor balcony  ran the length of each of  the room’s four
walls. From his corner roost, elbows on mahogany  desk pushed against the glass overlooking the gym,
sat Clint, Eddie’s grandson. The young man glanced  up from his phone call, penetrating green eyes
impatiently signaling  to Al to wait  in the hall until  he finished. The veins  bulged in Clint’s
sculpted arms, meat hooks that  stretched the sleeves of his white polo shirt  as he leaned over and
pushed the door to his office closed. Then he flicked at the dark mop of gelled hair that cas-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

4 5

caded down  onto his brow, a  nervous habit he’d  had since he  was a boy. His  business finished,
Clint rose and opened the  office door and motioned for Al to come up,  cursing the lazy Russian for
not using the regular channels of delivery.

Al erupted  in a laugh. He  had known Clint  when he was still  stealing candy bars from  the corner
market; that was before he’d been retained to sell steroids to his grandpa’s gym-rat boxers. Now
he felt the  urge to remind the  younger man of his  humble beginnings. Clint, stung  by the rebuke,
immediately turned quiet,  his lip drawn down into a  sullen pout. Sensing that he at  last had been
accorded proper  respect, Al  cunningly added,  “I got  mail.” With  that he  withdrew Mitch’s
credit application from his centerfold and tossed in  on the desk. Envelope in hand, Clint swivelled
on his chair and dropped the application in a mail chute. The two men sat in silence, waiting. Clint
tugged nervously at the  stubbly sideburns that extended to the bottom of  his ear, his eyes darting
about on  the screen  of his  computer monitor.  Meanwhile, Al  snapped his  dirty magazine  open to
“read.” The phone would ring in its own good time.

Clint was an only grandchild. Eddie once bragged  that his grandson could be a middleweight champion
like he had been. But the “boy,”

now 28, had proved a disappointment, both in the ring and in life. Eddie blamed himself–as well as
his over-indulgent daughter–for Clint’s failures. The  boy, however, had finally started to make
something of himself, running a successful telemarketing business from his basement.

It had  all begun a  year earlier when  the new landlord from  New Jersey purchased  their building,
along with the rest of the city block. Eddie had received an eviction notice, together with 24 other
tenants. In an attempt to fight back, they’d formed  an alliance to convince the new owners not to
demolish the properties, but instead to help  revitalize the neighborhood. After a sufficient amount
of groveling, the mysterious corporation had sent a representative around, Vincent Domenico.

Using his  considerable “people skills,” Vincent  had agreed to allow  the tenants to stay  on a
trial basis, if they agreed to let him evaluate their business practices to see if they could afford
an increase  in rent. Straightway,  seven of the  24 owners  sold out to  Vincent and moved  on. The
remaining companies seemed to prosper under the new arrange-46 KEN MERRELL

ment. It  was about that time  that Clint had decided  to get involved in  his aging grandfather’s
business. It was he who now ran the entire  gym operation. Over the ensuing months, Eddie had seemed
to go down hill, almost completely losing his hearing.

When the phone rang,  Clint pounced on it like a hunger-crazed badger,  snapping up the receiver and
cramming it  up to  his ear. Then,  without saying  a word,  he dropped it  back into  its receiver.
“Looks like you  get the bonus on  this one.” He leaned back  in his chair and  wrestled a loose
roll of cash from his front pants pocket. “This Mitch guy won’t be good again. Find someone new,
and, remember, next time use the proper channels.”

Al nodded and  hauled himself to his feet.  “Looks like you needs bigger pants,”  he chuckled as
Clint peeled off two crisp hundred-dollar bills. He reached out as if to hand them to Al, then flung
them across the desk.  The bills drifted to the floor.  Al grunted as he shot an  odious gaze at the
pretty-faced boy and  bent to collect his reward.  Al had enough respect for Eddie  that he didn’t
bother to say what he  was thinking to his punk of a grandson. He gathered  his money and headed for
the door.

“I’m not kidding, Al. If you don’t use proper channels, you won’t get a dime next time.”

Al mumbled a few rough  Russian words as he made for the stairs. Reaching  the last squeaky step, he
entered the  gym. Al noticed Eddie  take his log  and weight book from  his hip pocket, bite  at the
short pencil he kept  behind his ear, and scratch out some notes,  a task he’d performed thousands
of times before.

Mitch, after taking  a moment to admire  his flawless work on  the Ferrari, pulled his  GTO into the
empty bay of Mike’s shop. Just a few more minor details to attend to. Mike had seemed pleased with
the bullet-riddled car’s quality and time of completion, and offered to give Mitch a hand.

Just then a late-model Corvette  convertible purred up to the open bay doors.  Two men in their late
twenties stepped from  the low-profile car. Mitch noticed  the passenger first, clad in  a silk suit
and designer  sunglasses. A  heavy gold  chain hung  around his  neck. His  shirt was  unbuttoned to
mid-chest, as  if to purposely show  off the blinding piece  of jewelry. The man’s  face seemed as
hard and cold as marble. He

THE IDENTITY CHECK

4 7

paused to eye the joint,  ran his fingers through his dark hair, and  stepped toward the red Ferrari
in the first bay.

Guessing the  guy must  be the  owner of  the car,  Mitch, noting  the classic  gangster stereotype,
chuckled under his breath. His recollection of the  bullet in his pants pocket, though, kept the big
smile–anxious to escape–under wraps.  The man drew the shades from his  face as Mike approached.
The owner’s emotionless black eyes, didn’t really seem  to belong to the mouth, which had broken
into a shallow  smile. “The cah looks as good  as new,” he chortled in his  thick Jersey accent.
Mitch’s gaze  shifted to take  in the Vette’s  driver, who sported a  white polo shirt  with the
words Eddie’s Gym stitched across his bulging chest.  He flicked a few strands of styled hair from
his eyes and followed the first man into the garage. Mitch climbed from the back seat of the GTO.

Mike shook  hands with  the first  man, then  turned to  introduce his  co-worker. “This  is Mitch
Wilson. He’s the talent behind the job.”

The  owner of  the  car stuck  his hand  out  and took  Mitch’s  in a  clenching grip.  “Vincent
Domenico–my friends call me Vinnie. This is Clint Thurston, an associate.”

Mitch nodded.

“I’ve  heard a  lot  about you,”  Vinnie  continued. “Bino  says you’re  the  best in  the
state.”

Mitch shuffled awkwardly. The spotlight didn’t really  suit him. “I learned from the best,” he
replied, referring to his grandfather.

“This your cah?”  Vinnie nodded his head as he  wandered around the back of the  Ferrari to peer
through the open door into the immaculate GTO.

“It is.”

“You did a helluva  job. They sure don’t make ‘em like this  anymore.” Vinnie looked over at
Clint; it was  a look an older brother reserves  for a kid sister. Eddie’s muscle-bound  punk of a
grandson wasn’t  much of  a car  enthusiast. “Take off  Clint! They’ve  got my  ride finished.
I’ll catch you later.”

Clint nodded, put his sunglasses back on and  retreated to his expensive auto without saying a word.
Mike made a  mental note of the  Vette’s license plate number  as it pulled from  the parking lot.
Vinnie continued to admire Mitch’s GTO. “You running three deuces 48 KEN MERRELL

and a big block?”

Clearly the guy  knew cars. Mitch popped  the hood. Vinnie’s eyes  lit up at sight  of the engine.
“This baby ought’a move.”

“It probably wouldn’t hold a candle to yours in the quarter-mile–the top end’s flat at about
one-twenty. What does the Ferrari do?”

Vinnie’s  chin protruded  in thought  and  he nodded  his head  in  a cocky  gesture. “With  the
modifications . . . she’ll get to about 220. Want to take it for a spin?”

“No way! Are you serious?” Mitch glanced over at Mike, who stood listening, pondering whether to
warn the kid who it was he was dealing with.

“Hop in. We’ll catch 15 northbound at Cheyenne. You  can open her up outside of town and see how
she feels. I’ve got the best radar detection money can buy, and if the traffic’s light you might
be able to hit 180–that is, if you got the cojones.”

Mitch couldn’t  help but bust  out in his  little-kid grin; this was  like living a  dream. He’d
pressed a few of  his cars on the same strip  of freeway on the way to  grandpa’s, but the fastest
he’d ever gone was 120  mph. Mike tried to catch Mitch’s eye to stop him,  but he was too caught
up in the moment. Both he and Vinnie climbed in the car and veered out onto the highway.

Mike went back around to  his trailer, pulled a cell phone from under  a kitchen drawer, and punched
in a number. “He’s after the kid.”

Agent  Barnes’ sarcasm  had  not  tapered off  in  the  least.“Is this  the  same  good kid  you
practically had to force to work on the bullet holes?”

“I’m telling you, let’s bring the kid in and put him on the payroll. It’ll save us all a lot
of trouble.”

“Just keep  an eye on  him for now  and stay in  touch. If things  start moving, we’ll  bring in
back-up and get you some listening equipment.”

Mitch  nestled into  the Ferrari’s  black leather  driver’s  seat. It  felt like  he was  barely
creeping along as he traveled northbound past the  modest flow of traffic. The radar detector warned
of a potential problem looming ahead. After dropping  down to a legal speed, they passed the highway
patrolman waiting  under the overpass  at Craig Road.  His head turned to  watch the sporty  red car
pass. A mile more down the road, Vinnie asked why Mitch didn’t turn it loose.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

4 9

“I’ve been wondering  the same thing.” Mitch  slammed the shifter into third.  Then he pressed
the gas pedal to the floor and popped the clutch.  Even at 70 mph, the tires squealed. Both men were
pressed back  tightly against their seats  as the rush  of acceleration flowed through  their veins.
Mitch hit fourth gear  doing 110; fifth gear at 145.  The car still had power to burn  as he wove in
and out of traffic–past  cars and trucks that seemed to be standing  still. The car handled unlike
anything he’d ever driven. Vinnie seemed unaffected  by the mounting speed, but Mitch’s mind was
reeling.

“My wife’d kill me if she knew what I  was doing,” he exclaimed over the high-pitched whine of
the performance engine, now in high gear.

“It’s good to see you’re your own man.”

Somewhere between  160 and 180, Mitch  sensed a twinge  of doubt tug at  his mind. The image  of his
twins flashed  before him–at  almost the same  instant the  beep of the  radar detector  warned of
trouble.

“Hit the brakes,”  Vinnie shouted, “and pull  to the shoulder.” Both men  lurched forward as
the anti-lock brakes  nearly stood the car  on its nose. Within  20 seconds they were  parked on the
side of the freeway to await the oncoming patrol car.

Vinnie settled  back in his  seat, one hand  resting on the car’s  molded dash, the  other lightly
massaging the back of his neck. “If you’re lucky,  he didn’t get a lock and the scrambler will
screw up his readings.”

Soon a  patrol car came into  view from up  the highway, slowed  when its driver spotted  the idling
Ferrari, and crossed the median in a cloud of dust. Before the officer had climbed from his vehicle,
a second patrol car pulled up behind him, its lights still flashing.

“Don’t worry, they haven’t got enough to make anything stick.”

Vinnie opened  the passenger door  and started to  exit the car.  Mitch, meanwhile, stayed  put. The
thought of losing his driver’s license churned through his head.

“Get back in the vehicle,” ordered the approaching patrolman.

“What seems to be the problem, officer?”  Vinnie innocently asked, standing his ground, one hand
poised atop  the vehicle’s  shapely fender.  The officer’s  right hand  rested flat  against his
holstered gun.  “I said get  back in  the vehicle,” he  repeated. The second  officer cautiously
advanced from the passenger side of the first patrol  car as Vinnie slowly turned and slid back into
his seat.

The first officer sidled up  to the car. “Put your hands where I  can see them.” Mitch swallowed
hard. Suddenly the plush bucket seat didn’t 50 KEN MERRELL

seem so  comfortable anymore. He  willed his clammy  hands onto the  steering wheel. Vinnie,  on the
other hand, acted nonchalant. He seemed to relish the confrontation.

“I’m going to need your driver’s licenses and the car’s registration.”

The officer was now positioned behind the driver’s door out of range of vision. Mitch reached down
and removed  his wallet.  Vinnie took  the registration  from the glove  box and  passed it  and his
license to  Mitch. The  officer cautiously  took the  documents. “Do  you know  how fast  you were
going?”

“He wasn’t driving, officer, I was,” Vinnie broke  in. “We just pulled over so he could take
a turn behind the wheel.”

Mitch’s head swivelled  sideways. Vinnie, wearing a  corrugated halfgrin, was taking  the rap. The
officer stepped to the rear of the vehicle and motioned the second officer to his side.

“What are you doing?” Mitch muttered under his breath.

“Keeping you out of jail for reckless driving. Don’t tell them anything.”

After a  minute’s time, the first  officer returned to the  window. “Mr. Wilson, could  you step
back to my vehicle?”

Mitch  extracted himself  from the  Ferrari, made  his  way to  the patrol  car, and  sank into  its
cluttered passenger  seat. The officer  typed Mitch’s driver’s  license number into  his onboard
computer and waited for a response. Mitch shifted  uneasily, thinking back to the incident the night
before with Greg Hart. He hoped no one had  given his description to the police. The officer reached
up and pushed  a button on the  back of his radar gun.  “That’s how fast you  were going.” The
display read 179.  Mitch remained silent. The officer  picked up the radio. “Two-twelve .  . . did
you get that description?”

“Negative . . . both callers said they were traveling too fast.”

The officer turned  back to Mitch. “You’ve got  a clean record, Mr. Wilson, but  it appears your
friend isn’t such a good citizen. I wouldn’t hesitate  to throw you both in jail for that little
stunt if I had enough proof to do it.” Mitch looked up in surprise. “Next time you won’t be so
lucky. You’re either going to kill someone or I’ll  catch you again and take you in. I’m going
to write you a warning to make sure I remember who you are.”

Mitch waited for the paperwork, half apologized to the officer for

THE IDENTITY CHECK

5 1

his trouble, then returned to the Ferrari, where Vinnie, now in the driver’s seat, coolly waited.

“What’d I tell ya, kid? He couldn’t write you up, could he?”

“No, but he knew I was driving.”

“Knowing and proving are two very different things,” Vinnie boasted.

“You got big ones, kid,  big ones; I like that. Bino told me you  got potential.” He pulled from
the shoulder of the road. “I didn’t think anyone  could get this car looking like new so fast. .
. . It’s yours if you come to work for me.”

Mitch was sure his ears had gone haywire or something. “What?”

“I could never drive a  cah that’s been repaired, even if it does look  like new. I’ll pay you
six grand a month and  enough under the table bonuses that you won’t know what  to do with all the
cash. Whatta you say?”

Vinnie exited the freeway,  circled under the overpass and started back to  town. Mitch, his stomach
still tied up  in knots, could hardly speak. “What  . . .” he stammered, “kind  of work do you
do?”

“I’m a businessman–a  financial advisor to several  business interests. I need a  partner in a
body shop I bought a few months back ‘cause  my last manager quit. Matter of fact, your boss stole
him from me along with some of my best customers.  I figure I wasn’t paying him enough to keep him
happy. It’s so hard to find good help these days.”

“Look, Mr. Domenico–”

“Call me  Vinnie. .  . .” The  car’s compact,  insulated interior took  on a  momentary, eerie
silence.

“Mr. Domenico .  . . Vinnie, I mean  . . . Mike’s  my friend, and I don’t  know anything about
you. I’m planning on going back to school in the fall. I don’t think I’m the right man for the
job. . . .” Mitch noticed the muscles tighten in Vinnie’s jaw and temple.

“Just think it  over a few days. Bino tells  me Mike’s had a rough start.  Maybe I’ve got room
for the both of you. . . . I’ll get back to you–just give it some thought.”

Mitch’s muddled brain was riveted on the bullet in  his pocket. He didn’t need to think it over.
The answer would  be the same no matter how  much he was offered. It  was just too good to be  . . .
well, good. 52 KEN MERRELL

SIX

GREG HART OPENED HIS EYES  and tried to focus on the face of the  person standing above him, yelling
obscenities and demanding he  get off the railroad property before the police  were called. His head
was spinning  and his  mind reeled, consciousness  seeping too  slowly back into  his brain.  It was
becoming more  and more clear what  had happened. Gradually, the  reality of his miserable  life was
becoming knife-sharp,  bleak, transparent. The  smell of urine and  sun-baked vomit filled  the air,
joined by the sound  of buzzing flies. Together they bespoke the nightmarish,  nauseous hours he had
spent on the hard ground. Although much of it was a blur, his aching stomach muscles told him he’d
suffered a constant bout of dry-heaves from alcohol poisoning.

Out of  habit, the  pathetic-looking creature glanced  at his wrist  to check  the time. A  layer of
crusty bile covered  his arm where a watch  had been strapped. His designer shirt,  pants, shoes and
socks were gone. He eased himself into a sitting  position, wincing at the pain of the fiery sunburn
covering the right half of his mostly naked body.

“Get out of  here, you no good stinkin’  drunk!” the railroad worker started  in again. “Get
your clothes on  and get outta here.” With that,  he kicked at Greg a heap  of filthy clothes that
blanketed a pair of scuffed shoes. “I’ve got  enough to do without worryin’ you bums are gonna
wander on to the track of a movin’ train.”

Greg scraped the clothes  into a pile with his fingers  and tottered to his feet. Over  the top of a
row of  empty boxcars  he could  see some  distant dilapidated  buildings, and  headed out  in their
direction.

“The other way!” squawked the man. “You hafta go around 40 cars that way.”

Greg reversed direction and lifted  a hand to shade his face from the  pounding sun. The smelly rags
in his arms shifted and  a shoe fell unnoticed to the ground. Greg trudged on  toward the end of the
cars.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

5 3

The few people  in the greyhound station tried  not to stare as the outlandish  figure, wearing only
his underwear,  stumbled across the complex  and made his way  to the restroom. Dropping  the filthy
pile of  clothes on the floor,  he grasped both  sides of the soiled  sink and lifted his  gaze. The
mirror didn’t lie.  Greg had thought he was at  a low the day before; now  he could hardly believe
the sight that  reflected back at him.  He raked his hair  from his face and  fingered the sunburned
skin that was swelling his right eye almost shut.

The gurgle  of a flushing toilet  was heard. A young  man, yet in the  act of zipping up  his pants,
stepped from  the far stall.  Looking up, he  sniffed and wiped a  fingerless glove under  his nose.
“Wow dude, you okay?” he asked.

“Maybe I should get you an ambulance or something.”

As far  as Greg was concerned,  the kid was a  punk–a real freak. Studded  jacket, purplish spiked
hair, multiple piercings. . . . A worthless punk. Through his swollen tongue, Greg could hardly spit
out the words. “I’m fine.”

“Yeah, and I’m George W.  Bush,” the kid snickered. “You look worse than  my old man after a
week off the wagon.”

“I’m fine,” he repeated as he turned on the water.

“‘Fine’ people don’t crap their pants and wander  around in public in their boxers. Come on,
let me give you a hand.”

Greg cupped his hands under the flow and raised the cool, heavenly liquid to his face. Still queasy,
the blood that  rushed to his bent head  brought him to his  knees. As he fell, his  chin struck the
sink. A sickening, hollow thud echoed throughout the  tiled bathroom. A pair of hands caught hold of
him, bearing him to the floor. His hazy vision  caught sight of the purple-haired kid above him, his
dark features silhouetted against the fluorescent ceiling light.

“You hold on while I go call an ambulance.” He started for the door.

“No! Just give me a hand. Please!”

The young man hesitated, then retraced his steps. “What the heck, dude.

. . . I got two hours to burn and you’ve probably got one wild story.”

Eddie cut the tape from the wrists of his most promising young brawler and cuffed him on the back of
the head. The  old man’s voice was sharp  and gruff. “You’re doin’ fine, boy.  Get that left
hook down, maybe we’ll see you in the square. Go cool down on the walker and hit the showers.”

“Thanks, Pops.” Luke, all of 14 years old, tucked his fist under his skinny 54 KEN MERRELL

arm and pulled the glove from his hand. “I’ve been wondering if I could bring a friend tomorrow.
His mama, brothers,  sisters, they came to  the shelter last night.  They was beat up  pretty bad. I
could be his friend and you could teach him how to defend himself.”

Eddie lowered  his voice. “I always  got room for  one more boy. You  bring him and his  mama with
you–we’ll suit him up and fit him with a pair of gloves. If he’s not using drugs . . . ah, you
know the rules.”

“I know. He don’t look like that kind’a kid.”

Eddie took  the boy’s  headgear and tousled  his hair. “Now  go cool  down so you  don’t cramp
up.” The boy  lit out with a bounce  in his step that let  Eddie know the he would  never again be
afraid of his father. The old man stooped to  gather up the clumps of discarded tape from the floor.
Clutching them in  his fist, he stuffed the  sticky debris in the overflowing trash  basket. Then he
took down a fresh roll of tape from the shelf  and made for the back of the building. Ty still stood
guard at the metal door  leading to the basement. Eddie shook his head in  disgust as he limped down
the darkened corridor.

“Could’a been a contender,”  he mumbled in disgust. The brawny,  ebony-skinned man caught what
Eddie was saying and  lowered his eyes in shame, disappointed, after all  these years, at having let
the  old man  down. The  metal door  crashing open  caught the  grizzled woman  rifling through  the
dumpster below  off guard. “It’s just  Eddie,” she droned,  as if speaking to  someone nearby.
“I’ll bet he’s got a roll of tape fer us.”

Eddie waited  for the door  to slam behind  him before he  set the garbage  basket on the  steps. He
stretched out  the stiffness  in his  back and  let his leg  and arm  joints unfold  in the  rays of
sunshine that angled between the walled alleyway.  Retrieving the trash, he performed a step-hop off
the landing,  bounced down the  remaining steps, and  did a quick-step  shuffle with his  feet while
tossing his head to each side, dodging imaginary  blows. Although his moves were somewhat rusty, for
a bent old man he could still dance around pretty good.

“I see ya still be pretendin’, you old codger.”

Eddie  smiled a  kindly  smile. “And  you’re  still  diggin’ in  my  dumpster, buttin’  into
others’ business.”

The old woman  broke into a toothless grin,  causing waves of wrinkled, weathered skin  to buckle in
its wake.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

5 5

“How’s Cap’n?”

“Moved his shack from the Rio 95 bridge to I-15. Says there’s less noise there. He’s gettin’
more rest.”

“And Ritter’s bunions?”

“Still pretty bad. . . . He’s okay, though.”

Eddie drew the roll of athletic tape from  his pocket along with a twenty-dollar bill. “Here’s a
roll of tape and a few bucks. Maybe more of that cream will help.”

“God bless you, Eddie.” The old woman pressed the bill close to her face to determine its value.

The bygone fighter unfurled a  hanky from his back pocket to wipe his nose. As  he did so, the black
booklet in which  he kept his meticulous notes fell  to the ground. He bent to  pick it up. “I’m
going to need all the  blessings I can get if I turn the grandson in.  Soon, I’m afraid, I’ll be
joining you on the street.”

“Still givin’ you trouble?”

“Thinks he’s  some kind’a gangster. They  got something going  on in the basement  behind that
locked door. The money’s gotta be dirty.”

Eddie paused and turned to the side as though he were greeting an old friend. “And, Belle, how are
you today? I wish my grandson was as well behaved as you are for your mother.”

“She’s always been a good girl–never given me a lick ‘a trouble,”

the old woman chimed in, nodding in the  direction of the empty alleyway. “We’ll be goin’ now.
I’ll get some gauze from home and see if  I can find Ritter.” The ragged woman climbed down from
her milk crate and  lifted it into her over-stuffed shopping cart. “Come  on, Belle, we got things
to do.”

Shuffling, the  homeless figure jostled the  squeaky cart out of  the alley, all alone,  mumbling to
herself. Eddie reached up and dabbed at his eyes.

56 KEN MERRELL

SEVEN

WITH THE SUITS  FINALLY GONE, Stephanie waited for the  axe to fall. Sure enough, Linda  came on the
intercom and  ordered her  to the  conference room.  On her  way, Stephanie  pondered what  had just
happened. When  the commanding group of  visitors had shown up,  the stunned women could  do nothing
more than slink  back to their cubicles, leaving  Stephanie alone to take the  heat. Incensed, Linda
had demanded  to know  why no  one was  working. Stephanie, distraught,  had stood  in an  effort to
explain,  but  burst into  tears  partway  through the  apology.  The  visiting dignitary–much  to
Linda’s chagrin–had come to the aid of  the expectant mother, comforting and congratulating her.
Then he’d complimented  the entire room full of  women on their fine work.  Outside the conference
room, Stephanie took a deep breath and opened the  door. She couldn’t help but notice the rings of
sweat that  stained the  armpits of her  team leader’s  tan jacket. At  last safely  behind closed
doors,  Linda launched  into her  well-rehearsed tirade.  “I thought  I could  depend on  you, Ms.
Wilson,” she screeched. “You knew we had out-of-town visitors today . . .”

Stephanie stifled any more  tears, refusing to give Linda the satisfaction. “I’m  sorry . . . it
wasn’t my fault. Someone overheard me telling Maggie, and the next thing I knew everyone wanted to
see.”

“You made  me look like a  witch,” Linda scolded,  pressing her face toward  Stephanie’s while
keeping her back to the glass looking out into the main office.

Stephanie bit the inside  of her cheek, unable to contain herself. “You  didn’t need my help for
that,” she blurted out,  seething but still managing to hold the tears  at bay. The woman’s face
scrunched up in a sour-lemon expression. “You  slut! You’re probably the one who’s been filing
complaints about me. Well let me tell you something. I’m going to make your life a living

THE IDENTITY CHECK

5 7

hell the next  five months. You’ll wish  you never worked here,  and I guarantee there  will be no
leniency for  your condition.”  Lecture over,  little-lord Linda  plastered a  smile on  her face,
swung  open the  office door,  and waited  for  Stephanie to  step out.  “I apologize  again–and
congratulations on the good news!” she said in  her best, kindest voice, loud enough for the whole
room to hear.

Vinnie dropped Mitch  off at Mike’s shop, once  more inviting the expert body-man  to consider his
offer. As he  pulled away, he rolled his  wrist to check the  time on his Rolex, then  took his cell
phone from an inside suit pocket. “Tell me what you found out about this Mitch kid.”

Bino’s raspy voice  came on the other end of  the line. Inside his booth, he  pressed the phone to
his ear.  “He was arrested  for .  . . armed  robbery at 17  . . .  got a  reduced sentence .  . .
finished probation a couple years ago.”

“He’s our man. How do we own him?”

“Won’t be easy. . . . Doesn’t even buy hot merchandise.”

“What time did you say he’s showing the car?”

“Four.”

“Cancel with your buyer. I’m sending someone over.”

Vinnie punched in a  second number. The friendly front he’d presented to  Mitch minutes before had
been  erased,  replaced by  a  cryptic  scowl.  “Angelo, call  Clint.  Get  the address  of  Mitch
Wilson–he’ll know who it is. . . . Yeah. You’ve got an appointment at four to pick up a cah at
the drop. Stay out of the teller’s view.”

Back at  the gas station, Bino  gathered his oxygen  cart and opened  the sliding glass door  to the
booth. Janice, his part-time  help, was making her way across the worn  asphalt from her car, parked
near the upright fuel tanks at the back of the lot.

“I’ll be back in an hour,” Bino called out, winded. “I’m expecting Mitch . . . at four.”

“Who’s he?” Janice  was still trying to pull her  hair back into a bun as  she spoke. She gave
the appearance  of a 60-year-old  live ventriloquist doll,  the way her lower  jaw seemed to  fit up
inside her  smiling pudgy cheeks.  She worked an  occasional hour or two  during the days  when Bino
needed to run an errand, and almost every night and some weekends. Bino always paid her in cash.

“He’s the kid . . . with all the old cars.”

58 KEN MERRELL

“Yes, I remember him. Such a nice boy.”

“If I’m not  back before he gets here,  tell him to let the  man take his car while  he waits. I
trust him.”

Janice sniffed at  the stale air outside the booth  and cast Bino a suspicious glare.  “Okay . . .
have you been smoking again?”

“No . . . one of my customers.”

“That’s good. It’s not healthy, you know.”

Janice had  been buying her  gas at the  station since its  first pump was  turned on some  25 years
earlier. The widow lived only a few blocks away and would drop everything and come help out whenever
Bino called. She didn’t have much upstairs, but she loved people and would never think to pry into
their personal affairs. Living alone, the few extra dollars she made from the station helped stretch
the meager  social security  checks she  received each month.  Janice entered  the teller  booth and
opened the rest of the windows. The smell of tobacco was still strong. The place badly needed airing
out. She eyed  the rear lot as Bino  climbed in his car–struggling with  his oxygen–then reached
down and dumped the overflowing ash tray contents into the garbage can.

Bino turned the motor over. The five-year-old Audi  puffed out almost as much smoke as its occupant.
He’d often joked that he  was going to drive it off a bridge and  collect the insurance. Mitch had
worked on its engine a time or two, and with a little encouragement probably would have fixed it for
him. He  said it wasn’t worth  fixing the re-built,  as he’d totaled  the car just a  few months
after he climbed back on  the wagon and his old friend Jimmy had done a  horrible job fixing it back
up.

Having added the final touches to the GTO, Mitch collected his tools and put them in the trunk. Mike
had  casually asked  him  about his  drive  with Vinnie,  but  Mitch was  reluctant  to talk.  Mike,
skeptical, tossed out a hook, a query that  would tell him everything he needed to know. “You’re
welcome to leave your tools here.”

Mitch, ignoring  the offer,  locked the  immaculate tool chest  encircled by  loose power  tools and
closed the trunk. “My appointment’s at four. I’ll be back after that; we need to talk.” That
said, Mitch backed his car from the open bay and drove away.

Mike scrambled to close up and follow Mitch, worried he might

THE IDENTITY CHECK

5 9

have taken  a job  offer from Vinnie.  It was  the only  explanation: why else  would he  leave four
thousand dollars  worth of tools in  the back of  his car when  he’d planned on dropping  them off
after school. Not a single customer was at the  station when Mitch arrived a few minutes before 4:00
pm. He hoped Bino had  collected the information on Greg Hart and was  ready to decipher the man’s
failed suicide attempt.  Disappointed to find Bino  out, Mitch leaned up against  the teller window.
“Hi, Janice,” he  said. As she slid open  the window the combined odor of  potpourri candles and
stale ashtray drifted from the small room. “Where’s Bino?”

“Well, I expect him any time. He left you a message.  Let’s see . . . he said if he didn’t get
back before you got here, to let the buyer take your car for a drive. He trusts him.”

Mike yanked  the parking brake  into place. Positioned  in an empty hotel  parking lot a  half block
away, he dislodged  a pair of field  glasses from under his seat  and peered off through  a clump of
palm  trees in  the direction  of the  station. Mike  knew Bino  had ties  to Vincent  Domenico, and
that’s where he had started the undercover  investigation, now two months old. He’d cruised into
town in  his pickup, camping  trailer in tow,  with nothing  more than a  deer rifle hanging  in the
back  window  and  a  fictitious  dream  of  opening a  body  shop.  Without  Bino’s  help,  Mike,
putting  his  plan  into action,  had  hired  his  first  employee,  Jimmy, from  the  city’s  top
competitor–Vinnie  Domenico. Jimmy  was  an  exceptional painter,  but  didn’t know  enough–or
wouldn’t  say much–about  Vinnie’s  operation. He  did manage,  however,  to steal  Vinnie’s
biggest account, an  account that had moved on  when Jimmy disappeared. The agency  knew stolen cars
from Vegas were  showing up in various parts  around the country. They also were  aware that several
illegal activities had ceased operating back in New  Jersey about the same time Domenico had vacated
the state.  Through the glasses,  Mike spied a  clean cut  man in his  early 20s park  an almost-new
Chrysler 300, with  dealer plates, alongside the  GTO. The only other interruption  to the easygoing
conversation Mitch and Janice were having was a  customer who’d dropped by a brown manila envelope
with the  word “mail”scribbled across  the front. Mitch excused  himself and stepped  toward his
car.

60 KEN MERRELL

“This must be  the car Bino tol’ me ‘bout,”  the man said in a Latino  accent. “I’m Jose
Vasquez. It’s nice, like he tol’ me it would be.” He extended his hand. Gold rings adorned his
fingers, manicured appendages attached to a wrist draped in an expensive watch. He was well-dressed,
wore a tie, and seemed sincere.

“Mitch Wilson.”

Vasquez pulled  a business card from  his pocket and  handed it to Mitch.  At the top was  the local
Chrysler dealership’s  logo, followed by  the name  Jose Vasquez and  the title “Used  Car Sales
Manager”

printed underneath. “I’d like to take it back to the dealership–have one of the mechanics look
at it, if you don’ mind.”

Mitch recoiled at the thought.

“If it makes you  uncomfortable,” Vasquez continued, “you can come with me.  . . . Better yet,
I’ll leave  the keys  to my car  here for  you.” He tossed  the keys to  the Chrysler  at Mitch.
“I’ll be back in a half-hour. If I want to buy it, can you produce the title?”

Mitch reached in his pocket and brought out the keys to the GTO.

“It’s free and clear. The title’s at home.”

“Good. If it’s as sound as it looks, we’ll go to the bank.”

“Be careful–I’ve got a lot of work in it.”

“Don’ worry, I’ll treat it like my own.”

A hollow sensation gnawed at the pit of Mitch’s stomach as he watched his prized car pull from the
station and head off down the street. Mike followed at a safe distance.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

6 1

EIGHT

STEPHANIE RETURNED  FROM the ladies’  room, eyes  puffy and swollen,  nose red and  sniffily. What
little  makeup she  wore was  gone. Linda,  smiling, stood  outside her  work station  as Stephanie,
avoiding eye contact, passed by.

“If you’re not feeling  well, why don’t you take the rest of  the afternoon off?” she urged.
Maggie looked on, wondering if  a cat fight was about to break out. Stephanie  took a few more steps
before turning sharply  and withdrawing once more  to the restroom. Maggie followed.  Her friend was
suffering from  more than  the standard  hormonal imbalance  of pregnancy.  Linda grinned  smugly to
herself as the women  fled the office. Mitch’s car glided down the  road. Its young driver checked
his rearview mirror for the tenth time. The Chevy pickup was an easy mark, sticking up above traffic
even five cars  back. Mike was on the phone  calling for backup when the GTO  suddenly bolted across
two lanes and made an illegal left turn onto  Bonanza Road. By the time Mike had swerved onto Martin
Luther King Boulevard, he had no idea which way the car had gone.

Vasquez sped  east on 95, then  north on I-15, getting  off the freeway at  Washington–only blocks
from Mitch’s  house, a residence  he’d driven past  an hour earlier on  his way to  Bino’s gas
station. The Chevy pickup had been the only unexpected surprise. The driver guided the GTO

down the  lifeless cul-de-sac  and pressed the  garage door  opener, easing in  next to  the Camaro.
Snapping on  a pair  of rubber  gloves, he  exited the car  and launched  into an  organized search,
commencing in the garage, replacing every item he disturbed to its original place. There was no hint
of hurry.  His years of experience  in petty larceny and  auto theft, combined with  the information
Clint had given him . . . he’d find what he was looking for, 62 KEN MERRELL

sooner or later.

The Audi pulled into the station, leaving a foul  trail of blue smoke in its wake. Mitch walked over
to the car and swung open the passenger door, waiting for the haze of thick cigarette smoke to clear
before he dropped into the seat beside Bino. “So what’d you find on Greg Hart?”

“You’ve got trouble, kid.”

“What kind of trouble?”

Bino took a  running start, drawing in  as much air as his  damaged lungs would take.  “I just had
coffee with . .  . a friend of mine . . .  an expert in criminal matters. Cost me .  . . three bills
and . . .  a huge marker. She told me . .  . the police have a good description .  . . and composite
drawing . . . of a young man . . . early twenties, blond hair

. . . blue or light green  eyes . . . between 5' 11” . . . and 6' 4"  and . . . weighing about 200
pounds. Says he fled the scene . . . a possible armed robbery . . . in a red Camaro.”

Mitch shook his head, unable to believe what he was hearing. “Oh, boy. . . .”

Bino’s lips  reached out  and sucked in  a shallow  breath. “The good  news is .  . .  without a
victim, even . . . even if they identify you . . . they could never make any . . . charges stick.”

“I’ve got to find the guy.”

“Good luck. He’s probably . . . hopped a train  headed north . . . by now.” Bino dropped three
folded documents between them on the seat.

“The guy’s got more . . . financial troubles than you can . . . shake a credit card at.”

Mitch  stared  down  at  the  court  documents,  one  judgment  after  another,  some  from  lending
institutions, most  served by  credit card  companies. “The  paperwork wasn’t  finished,” Bino
continued, “but the poor  guy’s house . . . was  sold on the steps of . .  . the courthouse this
morning. The second mortgage . . . bought the first.”

Mitch let out  a sigh. “I better  turn myself in–explain what  happened. All I did  was save the
guy’s life. . . .”

“It’s up to  you, kid . . . but  I thought you told me .  . . something like this had  . . . had
happened to you before?”

Mitch didn’t  recall the  conversation, but  assumed he  must have  mentioned something  about the
burglary conviction during the last

THE IDENTITY CHECK

6 3

two years.

Bino’s bloodshot eyes flitted about the station. “By the way, where’s your car?”

“Your buyer took it to his mechanic to have it checked out.”

“You let him take it?”

“Sure. He handed me the keys to his Chrysler and a business card. Said he’d be right back.”

“How long ago . . . was that?”

Mitch checked his watch. “Twenty minutes.”

Maggie stood  facing the bathroom  mirror with her  arm around the  shoulder of her  younger friend.
“It’s okay, Stephanie. Let it  out. I cried the whole time I was  pregnant with my second child.
My husband thought something was the matter with me.”

“Uh, uh,  uh .  . .” Stephanie  gasped, like a  sobbing child  who couldn’t catch  her breath.
“It’s–it’s more than that.”

Maggie stepped back, took Stephanie by the hands and gave her a sympathetic nod. “What is it?”

“Linda called me in the office–she, she threatened me.”

“I wondered if that was it.”

“You believe me?”

“Of course. She did it  to me, too, just after I hired on. Bawled  me out something awful, several
times.” A glimmer of hope returned to Stephanie’s eyes. Maggie went on. “She told me I was too
old to be working, and vowed to make my job miserable. I decided she could try, but I’m the one in
charge of how I feel.”

“I was afraid no one would believe me . . . because she seems so friendly.”

“I would have believed  you even if she hadn’t done  it to me. Now, why don’t  you go home and
get some rest. If  she tries anything tomorrow we’ll go see  her supervisor together.” Stephanie
blotted at  her eyes with  a tissue. “I’ll  call, and see if  you still want  me to pick  you up
tonight,” Maggie added as an afterthought.

Stephanie looked up in disbelief. How could Maggie  even suggest such a thing? “I wouldn’t dream
of not going. Our visits are the highlight of my week. They give me courage. . . .”

Maggie smiled and nodded as she gently stroked Stephanie’s arm.

“Isn’t it a miracle how, when we give, we get so much in return?”

64 KEN MERRELL

Stephanie rested her  head on Maggie’s shoulder.  The love and kindness radiating  from her friend
was such a  comfort. No longer able to  contain them, the remaining tears suddenly  burst from their
reservoir. “I don’t know what I’d do without you,” she wailed. “Why couldn’t I have been
your daughter?”

“You are, Stephanie, you are.” Maggie’s loving reassurance  was a far cry from the angry words
last spoken by her  own parents when they refused to attend hers  and Mitch’s wedding. The GTO’s
driver, a  pro, who’s real  name was Angelo  Quintano, slid behind the  passenger seat of  the red
Camaro, rifled through  the glove box, then paused  to remove a plastic bag from  his pocket. He’d
begun stealing cars  when he was 12.  Older cars were his speciality,  but he could do  the new ones
just as easily. Most salesmen would gladly hand over the keys–with a little prep work, that is. He
could speak English without a trace of an accent, but preferred to wield a mixture of Chicano slang.
Raised surrounded  in poverty, the only  two things Angelo’s parents  had given him were  a pretty
good brain and  a generic, honest-looking face. Everything  else came from years of  foster care and
juvenile detention. By the time  he was 18, he’d learned well the art of  how to keep from getting
caught. Whenever Angelo  robbed a place, he only  took what he needed, and made  sure everything was
left exactly as he’d  found it. Using this tack, people usually didn’t  notice their things were
gone for several days. By then, any hint of a trail was cold.

The thug had been prepping the witless used car  manager for several days, using a cloned cell phone
number and caller ID. The stolen phone now lay in the trash can at the Chrysler dealership, a little
slap in the  face when they’d find  it. Angelo had expected  to steal a car  if something remotely
worth taking came in. The luxury Chrysler itself wasn’t worth his time.

Slipping the gun he’d found into the bag, Angelo took  a moment to see if any cash or credit cards
were in the wallet before jamming it in a second  bag. Then, removing a phone clipped to his hip, he
placed a call.  “Vinnie, I found a  gun and wallet–belongs to  a dude named Greg  Hart. What you
want me to do with ‘em?”

“Leave the leather, bring the piece. Have you finished the house?”

“No, man. I’m still in the garage.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

6 5

“Any trouble?”

“Nah, just some guy with greasy hair tried to follow me in a brown 4x4.”

Vinnie probed the recesses of his brain, trying to place the truck.

“Don’t take any chances. . . . Drop the car at the warehouse.”

As instructed, Angelo removed the wallet and returned  it to the glove box before climbing the steps
to the kitchen.  Drawing the blinds, he  meticulously searched each drawer  and cupboard, afterwards
opening the blinds and moving on to the next room.

Stephanie trudged  across the parking lot.  Mitch had given her  the Escort as a  present four weeks
before their wedding, now nearly three years past. Her parents had taken away the new Nissan she’d
been driving  when their  bitter words hadn’t  changed her  mind about marrying  the kid  from the
junkyard. Mitch  had re-built the  totaled Ford and  was planning on  selling it. He  didn’t think
twice about signing  it over and registering the little  car in her name. He’d wanted  to give her
this gift, even if the pressure from her parents did change her mind.

Stephanie fitted the  key in the ignition and  turned the motor over. It  sputtered, almost started,
finally  spinning freely  as  if in  protest  to the  warming temperatures.  She  leaned across  the
passenger seat and rolled down the window, then opened  her own to let the scorching air escape. The
car had had a  few minor problems the first week  she drove it, but Mitch was  quickly able to solve
them. But recently it’d  seemed harder and harder to start,  though–wouldn’t you know it–the
problem never  seemed to manifest  itself when Mitch  drove it. She  would wait a  minute; sometimes
that’s  all the  old  heap needed.  Unfolding  her paycheck,  she  thought of  the  pile of  bills
collecting on the  counter at home. The sale of  the GTO would bring welcome relief  to the mounting
financial pressures  that seemed to  plague the  young couple. Fortunately,  Mitch took care  of the
bills and always seemed to find enough money to pay for schooling as they went. He was shrewd–kept
both of  them walking a tight  budget. Stephanie wasn’t  accustomed to the stressful  realities of
money. Her parents had taken her credit cards away only a few days before they took her car. She was
grateful  for Mitch’s  willingness  to deal  with  the money  woes,  but still  found  it a  chore
conforming to his bud-66 KEN MERRELL

get. The landlord had called a few days earlier to ask where the rent was. Mitch had promised he’d
have it  by the 15th, only  two days away. After  trying to start the  car a second time,  the motor
gasped, popped, then jolted  into a gentle hum as if nothing had  been the matter. Stephanie decided
to stop at home for  a cool shower before cashing her check and buying a  few new clothes, one thing
she knew how to do all too well.

Bino paced the oil-stained  concrete. It’d been 40 minutes since Jose  Vasquez took Mitch’s car.
Way too long.  He chastised Janice for mixing  up his instructions–“Not to let the  man take the
car. He  didn’t trust him”–then  advised Mitch  to call either  the dealership or  the police.
Mitch balked  at the  latter suggestion.  “Can’t call the  police. The  car’s not  licensed or
registered. The plates are off some wreck at my grandpa’s junkyard.”

Bino paid Janice  in cash and sent her home.  She went reluctantly, still sure Bino  had told her to
let  the guy  take  the car  and  mumbling  about how  sorry  she was.  Her  usual smiling,  cordial
disposition were all but spent, replaced by  groans and grumbling. Mitch couldn’t bring himself to
be angry  at her. She  already seemed to  be in  enough agony. Bino  turned to Mitch.  “Sorry kid,
it’s my fault,” he apologized. “I should’ve written a note. She sometimes forgets things.”

Mitch nodded. No  need to panic until he visited  the Chrysler dealer to find out  if Angelo Vasquez
worked there.  Bino was impressed  by the kid’s cool-headedness.  He watched, stone-faced,  as his
young friend pulled from the station and drove away in the stolen Chrysler.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

6 7

NINE

GREG TEETERED ACROSS Main Street and up  the alley behind American Biomedical. The single, oversized
shoe had fallen from  his swollen right foot as he  ran to avoid being hit by  a semi, whose hurried
driver had borne down on the horn instead of the brakes. His tattered pants were held up by a flimsy
rope fastened around his computer-chair stomach. The shade  of the alley offered relief to his bare,
blistering feet. Completely drained, he slumped on the ground against the building.

His perception  of Wyatt, the young  man from the restroom,  was now far different  from before. The
17-year-old  “freak”  had  recently  inherited  a  five-thousand-dollar  death  benefit  from  a
grandfather who’d died from Alzheimer’s. Wyatt had  served as his main care-giver until Medicare
finally agreed  to place the  old man in  a rest home. He  had known of  the money since  before his
grandfather was too sick to think, and dreamed of running away to Vegas to gamble it into a fortune,
after which his plan called for him to move far from home–far away from his abusive father.

The young  man’s great Las Vegas  adventure, however, had turned  sour. Chased from one  casino to
another after he had sneaked in and dropped his money into their slots, now all but a few bucks were
gone; he’d saved  only enough for the bus  ride back to Seattle. Perhaps,  though, Wyatt’s being
there was predestined. Indeed, for Greg, he’d been an angel in disguise, leading him into an empty
stall where, standing naked  on the cold tile, the boy washed his  dirty shirt, pants and underwear.
Some minutes  passed before Wyatt handed  a wad of  moist paper towels  over the stall door  so Greg
could wash himself off. Then came the clothes, having been dried under the restroom’s hand dryer.

As Greg had  struggled to dress, the questions  Wyatt had asked were far-reaching.  Greg had croaked
back his answers the best he could. 68 KEN MERRELL

“You ever hit your kids?”

“No,” Greg had answered curtly.

“You ever beat your wife until she couldn’t stand up no more, while your kids watched?”

“No.”

“You ever come  home at night, drag  your son from bed and  slam him against the  wall ‘cause he
forgot to take out the garbage? . . . How  about stealing your wife’s paycheck to buy booze? . . .
You ever let your kids go hungry for the week?”

“No. . . . No . . .”

“Well, if  you had, I’d’ve  told you you’d  be better off dead,”  the young man  had said,
tears welling up in his eyes as Greg emerged from the bathroom stall.

Now, out on the  street, Greg pondered both Wyatt’s dismal state and  his own catastrophic actions
of the day and  night before. It already seemed like  a lifetime ago. A fever quickly  gave way to a
bout of  shivers caused by the  sunburn. These were accompanied  by a terrible hangover.  He hunched
over, favoring his left side in order to escape the pain of the blistering flesh rubbing against his
course jeans. Down the alleyway, an old lady  pushing a wobbly shopping cart pressed toward him from
behind a  dumpster. She stopped  a half dozen  feet away  and took a  worn-out broom from  her cart.
“What you doin’ here?”

she shouted, her toothless jaw flapping on stringy muscles, her rubbery arms shaking the butt of the
broom in Greg’s face. “Get outta here–this’s our alley!”

Greg didn’t move. Fever and dehydration barely  permitted him to remain conscious. “Please leave
me alone,”  he whispered. Seeing  the pitiful figure  slouched before her  was no threat,  the old
woman bent closer. “What’d you say?”

Greg closed his eyes in resignation. “Leave me alone.”

The woman bent still closer  to see who it was she was threatening. Greg  lifted his eyelids. A pair
of cataract-covered pupils  were pressed inches from his  face. The tramp was chomping  on her gums,
smacking her lips together,  breathing heavily through her crooked nose. “No,  he ain’t going to
hurt us–he  can hardly  sit up,” she  grunted, peering to  one side  as if speaking  to someone.
“Looks pretty bad, don’t ya’ see?”

Greg gazed  in the direction of  her presumed companion;  no one was  there. He began to  shiver and
shake, then sagged to the ground

THE IDENTITY CHECK

6 9

and pulled his knees up to his trembling torso.

“I think he needs our help. Now shut up an’ gimme a hand; I’ve had

‘nough of your  naggin’ today.” The old  woman tugged at Greg’s sweatstained  shirt until he
sat up. “Don’t just stand there–help me. This man’s fatter ‘an the last one.”

With the old woman’s assistance, Greg staggered to  his feet. Leaning him over the cart, the woman
wove it down  the alley to the back of  the parking garage, four buildings away.  Shifting her gaunt
frame, she yanked at the heavy cart, slowly guiding  her awkward load behind a green metal power box
and into a narrow space hidden under the parking ramp.

“He ain’t gonna hurt us. . . . See, he’s married.” The woman drew Greg’s hand close to her
face and examined his grotesquely swollen finger, evidence of an aborted attempt to remove his ring.
“If’n he  were one ‘a  us he wouldn’t  still need it,  now would he?  Look at the  skin that
ain’t burnt–lily white, fresh from the office, fed plenty well.

. . .  By the look of his beard,  he’s only been out a  few days. Gonna take a while  for ‘im to
toughen up–get street-smart.”

A smelly but  warm blanket was gently pulled  over Greg’s shivering body and a  fuzzy brown pillow
tucked under his  head before he drifted into a  deep sleep. “Now you get some  rest, young fella;
Nurse here’ll go find somethin’ fer that burn.”

70 KEN MERRELL

TEN

FOUR BLOCKS FROM  HOME the car’s engine ground to  a halt. Stephanie coasted to the  curb, put the
car in  park, and tried  to restart the  motor. She turned  the key, willing  the car to  start, her
mutterings falling in rhythm with the puny engine’s sobs. Then, as if by magic, it sprang to life,
whereupon Stephanie pulled  from the curb and went  her way–heading home, to a  place where Angelo
Quintano was working his way through the bedroom  drawers. Up to that point he’d collected nothing
but  the small  handgun and  a recent  photo of  Mitch. After  pawing through  socks, underwear  and
pantyhose, he  stepped to  the small walk-in  closet and pulled  the string  to a single  light bulb
jutting from the ceiling. The closet was  packed with women’s clothing, arranged by category: tops
hung at the far left, slacks in the middle,  designer dresses on the opposite wall. The floor at the
front was lined with women’s shoes; assorted clothes were stacked against the side and back walls.
Most was at least three years old–and quickly  falling out of style. Some, badly creased, dangling
limply from  metal hangers, clearly had  not been worn  since it had  been sorted and hung.  A shelf
above the closet rods  sagged from the weight of designer jeans, folded  v-neck shirts and sweaters,
piled almost to the ceiling. Angelo pressed his arms between the clothing at the corners to see what
might be tucked  away out of sight.  At the same moment Angelo  removed a metal filing  box from its
concealment, Stephanie  rounded the corner  to her dead-end street.  Once again, the  car’s engine
sputtered and quit,  just three doors from home.  This time it wouldn’t restart on  the first try.
The car’s  resistance, Stephanie decided, was  the perfect opportunity  to leave it parked  on the
curb, where Mitch could fix it.

Inside the  house, Angelo  thumbed through dozens  of auto-related invoices  and other  records, all
filed haphazardly. No dividers or tabs separated the stack of papers. Dumping the pile in the center
of the closet floor,

THE IDENTITY CHECK

7 1

he began to search for any document or envelope that might resemble a title.

After rolling up the windows and locking the doors to the Escort, Stephanie walked across the street
and up  the driveway  to the  front door  of the well-worn  rambler home.  Two little  Mexican boys,
wearing only dirty  T-shirts and stained underwear  that sagged and gaped around  their skinny legs,
played with rusty Tonka trucks–beds loaded with mud and water–under the shade of a huge Siberian
elm tree two lots away.

Stephanie unlocked the door and slipped inside. Immediately she kicked off the shoes that pinched at
her swollen feet,  unzipped the dress slacks that  strangled her waist, and dropped  her paycheck on
the countertop near a growing pile of bills. The thought of Linda’s vicious words kept pounding at
her subconscious  as she unbuttoned her  blouse and tossed it  in the clothes basket  in the hallway
outside the bedroom. She reached to the thermostat on the wall and moved the control from a stifling
82 degrees  down to a more  comfortable 74. The  hum of the  compressor could be heard  kicking into
action in the  backyard. Out of habit, she sidled  over to the window to close  the drapes while she
undressed. Strange–they  were already closed.  Her mind  still preoccupied with  Linda’s caustic
behavior, she  reasoned that  she must have  forgotten to open  them before  she left for  work that
morning. Trying to  crowd the myriad depressing  thoughts from her mind, Stephanie  began to whisper
baby names. She liked to hear them spoken  aloud–how they sounded as brother and sister: “Andrea
& Austin

. . . Carlie & Crosby.” She smiled as she let her slacks slip from her slender hips and crumple to
the floor near the doorway of the dark closet. Then she reached for the light string.

Angelo, from  under partial  cover of the  bulging wardrobe,  inched his hand  closer to  the pistol
wrapped in the plastic bag tucked beneath his belt. The light switch clicked. Nothing happened. Bulb
must beburned out, she thought.

“Drake & Darcy,” she uttered  under her breath as she pulled the string  again, then felt in the
darkness for an empty hanger. Drake . .  . Darcy–they were two of her favorites, but unfortunately
they meant, respectively, “dragon”  and “girl of dark hair.” She didn’t  know if that made
any difference. . . .

She started to reach up to unscrew the bulb, oblivious to the heat that yet 72 KEN MERRELL

radiated from its glassy surface, then paused. “Jeff & Stef.” These brought a smirk to her lips.
Lowering her arm, she tugged another hanger from the rod.

Angelo’s eyes widened as  he studied her fashion-model profile, silhouetted in  the light from the
bedroom window. The woman  now was standing less than two feet away,  fumbling in the darkness. From
the back of the closet, lustful thoughts rustled  noiselessly through the cavity like a silent black
wind as the meticulous thief struggled to steady his thoughts and remember why he was there.

Mitch parked  in front  of the used  car office of  Smith Chrysler  and strode directly  through the
swinging glass doors. A bitter  anger had begun to swell up from inside his  chest, even as his mind
tried to convince his bursting heart and lungs that everything would be okay. At any second he hoped
beyond hope to see his glistening gold GTO

inside one of the mechanic bays.

The receptionist glanced  up from her desk and  smiled at the potential customer. “Hi,  may I help
you?”

“I hope. Do you have a salesman named Jose Vasquez?”

“We do–he’s our manager. Would you like to speak with him?”

Mitch breathed  a sigh of relief  as the bubbly brunette  called over the intercom,  “Mr. Vasquez,
come to the sales floor please. You have a customer waiting.”

Stephanie picked up the pants  from the doorway. Her eyes had finally adjusted  to the dim room. She
snapped the  slacks to the hanger  clips and pried  the mass of  clothes apart to wedge  the garment
between the overflowing bulk. “Joseph & Josephine.” Her hand glided down the pants to straighten
them among the  others. Nah, sounds toomuch  like a prophet and  a gypsy. She drifted  away from the
closet. Meanwhile, buried inside its inky  recesses, her uninvited visitor’s heart quickened–not
because of his close proximity as an intruder, but out of lust.

Stephanie went around the corner and dropped her underwear in the clothes basket before entering the
bathroom. When the water started, Angelo hurriedly  resecured the partially unscrewed light bulb and
finished rummaging  through the wad  of papers he’d  jammed back in the  metal box. He  found four
Nevada titles among the clutter and replaced all but the

THE IDENTITY CHECK

7 3

title to the GTO, which he folded into his back pocket. After returning the box to its hiding place,
he paused at  the bathroom door, slightly ajar.  The hypnotic sound of splashing  water, the flowery
scent of bodywash,  the blurred, misty image  cast on the foggedup mirror  . . . they  were all more
than enticing. But, no. He must keep his mind on his main objective.

Plodding on  down the  hall, he disappeared  through the kitchen  door and  backed the GTO  from the
garage,  leaving his  unsuspecting nonvictim  standing  under the  rush  of soothing,  hot water.  A
dark-skinned, rotund  man–nearly as wide  as he  was tall–dressed in  white shirt and  dark blue
pants pulled  up high  around his chunky  midsection, waddled  onto the sales  floor from  the back.
“Can I  help you?” he  asked in a  jocular tone,  his breathing labored  from the extra  load he
carried.

“I’m here to see Angelo.”

“At your service.” The man presented his thick hand and gave Mitch a friendly shake.

Mitch’s gut churned. “You have a son named Angelo?”

“No, sir, I’m one of a kind. No children, married only to my work.”

He chuckled  as if  it was the  first time  he’d used the  line. Mitch pointed  at the  300 parked
outside the showroom window.

“Does that car belong to you?”

“Sure thing. Does your boss want me to fill out the paperwork?”

“Who?”

“Your boss . . .” the big man smiled.

“I think we’ve both been had,” Mitch said, a solemn expression etched onto his face.

“Don’t you work for the Burger King down the street?”

Mitch shook his head. “The  guy that borrowed your car stole mine and  gave me your business card.
Said he was you.”

Mr. Vasquez’s droll personality transformed to  fire and brimstone. Motioning to his receptionist,
he demanded she get the police on the phone  at once. Company policy didn’t allow for customers to
take cars from the lot without a salesman, and he  was about to turn the floodgates loose on his own
actions.

“Wait!”  Mitch exclaimed.  “You haven’t  been hurt.  Your car’s  back –mine’s  the one
missing.”

74 KEN MERRELL

The receptionist paused. Mr. Vasquez turned on his  heels, dropped both thumbs down the front of his
enormous pants, then pulled them back up over his belly. “You’re right, son. What’re you going
to do?”

Mitch had been  wondering the same thing. “I  don’t know. Something’s wrong. This  guy knew he
was going to steal my car before he even saw it. I think he set you up so he could set me up.”

“Let’s go  back to  my office.” The  hulking, panting fellow  reached up  and put his  hand on
Mitch’s shoulder. “What kind of car did he steal?”

Over the next  few minutes, the two men  exchanged as much information as possible.  Mr. Vasquez was
hard-pressed to give even a  rudimentary description of the car thief: “. .  . wore a low baseball
cap, sun-glasses, average height, weight, Spanish  accent.” He’d been corresponding by phone for
the past  two or  three days  with the  owner of  the Burger  King several  blocks down  the street.
Seemingly legitimate, the guy had been looking for a good  deal on a good used car. The 300 had come
in on a new car trade that very morning, and Vasquez  had called to invite him to come in and take a
look at it.

“He told me he’d send one of his employees by to pick it up.”

“Then you have his number?”

Vasquez shuffled  through a tangle of  papers on his desk.  Finally he retrieved from  the clutter a
note with a name and number scrawled across its  surface, and handed it across the desk, shoving the
phone toward Mitch with his other hand. “It’s your car.”

Mitch dialed the  number and waited, hung up,  then dialed again. Discouraged, he asked  if he could
keep the scrap  of paper, thanked the manager  for his help, and  asked for a ride home.  Out in the
showroom, the receptionist  was bent over the  garbage container, digging through  its contents. She
stood  up,  slightly  embarrassed, when  the  men  appeared.  “I  heard a  phone  ringing,”  she
apologized. “Twice. . . .”

Mitch went over to her  desk and, for a third time, dialed the number on  the slip of paper. A faint
ring could  be heard coming from  the container, kind of  a muffled plea. Lifting  a crumpled Burger
King bag  from the  basket, Vasquez produced  the wailing, ketchup-smeared  cell phone.  Mr. Vasquez
readily consented to Mitch taking the phone with him as they left the showroom

THE IDENTITY CHECK

7 5

ELEVEN

THE STENCH OF  STAGNANT AIR was the first thing  Greg noticed as he roused from  his fevered dreams.
Then he  surveyed the bleak confines  of the tiny shelter.  Next came the sound  of squeaking wheels
from a rusted shopping cart, announcing the return of his deranged old hostess.

The old woman crawled under the gray carpet that  hung over the opening to the concrete void. In her
skeletal hands were a small plastic bag, a  beat-up thermos and a pair of rusty scissors. “How’s
the patient?” she asked.

Greg moaned and tried to push the foul blanket away from his chin. “I need to get out of here.”

“Now you jus’  stay put. We got somethin’  that might help draw out the  heat,” she grinned.
“‘Lo ‘vera–a powerful herb. Mama taught me how a use it more ‘en 50 years ago.” She took
the scissors  and began  to cut  at the  splotchy fabric of  Greg’s right  pant leg,  her crippled
fingers working for  all they were worth.  “Looks like ‘em blisters started  poppin’. From the
looks

‘a it, you musta  been in the sun five, six  hours. Scuttlebutt on the street has  it the man that
robbed you got 50 bucks fer your watch. Musta been a nice one.”

The old woman paused when she reached Greg’s hip. “No, we won’t completely undress him; he’s
still got  his underwear on.” The  old woman turned back  to Greg. “This’s my  daughter Belle.
She’s embarrassed to see  your nakedness. . . . Everybody calls  me ‘Nurse’–don’t worry, I
seen it all

‘fore.”

She spread the mouth of the plastic bag, removed a  stalk of aloe vera plant, popped it in her mouth
and began to chew, her fluttering gums chomping up  and down. Then she spit a sticky slurry into her
palm  and gently  patted the  blistered skin  on Greg’s  leg. After  applying a  second and  third
handful,

“Nurse” pulled the outer husk of aloe vera from her lips.

“Don’t taste so good, and might give me the runs tomorrow, but my ol’

76 KEN MERRELL

hands have a hard time squeezin’ out the juice.”

Under  any  other  circumstance,  Greg  would   have  been  completely  disgusted–not  to  mention
embarrassed–but the  pain from the  second degree burns  over 60%  of his fair  skin had a  way of
making him drop his guard. The coolness of the  soothing herb felt good. A soft “Thank you” fell
from his cracked, swollen lips.

“No, no, don’t thank me ‘til you gets  the bill,” she giggled. Her gnarled hands trembled as
they strained to unscrew the lid to the thermos. Then one of them reached down and extracted a dirty
straw from her pocket.

“Here, now we better get some fluid in you ‘fore you dry out like a ol’

bone.”

Greg sipped at the used straw. Cold orange juice ran over his parched tongue and down his throat.

“Got it  from the church on  Stewart. Reverend says he’ll  help us anytime. Always  good ta have
friends, ain’t it?”

Greg nodded. This new friend was unlike any he’d ever had.

“Good luck with your car,” Mr. Vasquez said as Mitch exited the car.

“I’ll be happy to testify, if you can find him.”

“Thanks for the ride. I appreciate the offer.”  The Chrysler pulled away. Mitch, standing on the
curb, spied the Escort down  the street. Why was it parked there? And  what was Stephanie doing home
so early? He took a  deep breath and turned toward the house. Telling his  wife about the stolen car
wouldn’t be easy. And explaining why he hadn’t called the police would be even harder.

The open paycheck on the kitchen counter reminded Mitch of the new clothes he’d promised his wife.
As  if in  tandem, the  unopened credit  card application  further dampened  his mood.  Two opposite
reminders, one clear message: they were in financial  trouble. The loss of income from the GTO would
be hard to absorb, setting  them back months. It might even push school  back for another year. They
were already  in desperate straits; now  how would they survive?  Mitch had never lied  to Stephanie
about anything. But this was different, he decided. He had to protect her feelings. He could justify
not saying anything–not yet, at least–until after he recovered his car. He made his way down the
hallway to the bedroom and pushed open the door. Stephanie  lay on the bed, dressed in a pair of his
baggy sweats. She jerked to a seated position, startled by his entry.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

7 7

“Oh . . .  you’re home. I must have dozed  off. I–I didn’t even hear the garage  open. . . .
So, did you sell it?”

“Not yet.” He could  barely get the words out. He quickly changed  the subject. “You’re home
early. . . . What’s the car doing out on the street?”

Stephanie groaned. “You wouldn’t believe what a horrible day it’s been.”

“I might; try me.”  Stephanie’s eyes glistened with tears as she  described what had happened:
their obnoxious neighbor Al coming on to her that morning . . . Linda and her double-crossing ways .
. . the little Ford twice dying on the way home.

Later, after  an hour of Mitch’s  thoughtful attention, she  felt better. That’s what  she loved
about him:  he could listen without  judging or trying to  fix anything. She could  never understand
where he’d learned to be so sensitive to others’ feelings, especially without a mother around.

“What can I do to help?”

“Can you fix the car?”

“That’s the easy part. You vant I should punch Al too?” Mitch doubled his fists, stuck out his
gut and danced about, shadow boxing. Stephanie laughed. “No, I think I can handle him.”

“I’ll take your car and run a few errands. It’s probably just the fuel pump.”

The phone rang  as Mitch lifted the spare  keys from a dish on  the counter. “Hello . .  . Yeah, I
know. I’m sorry, I  thought I’d have it by today.  . . . I will, I  promise–by Thursday at the
latest. . . . Yeah, I understand.”

“The rent?” Stephanie asked.

Mitch nodded.

“I’ll wait a few more days for clothes.”

“No, don’t worry. I’ll take care of it. Tomorrow we’ll go shopping.”

“When does your flight leave?”

“Sunday night.”

“And you get back when?”

“Sometime Wednesday evening.”

“This will be the first time for us to be apart,” Stephanie pouted, a lament marked by both mock
anguish and genuine sadness.

“I know. I was hoping to surprise you with a ticket, but it’s not going to happen.”

“I’ll be fine, especially if I can park in the garage. You just go show ‘em your stuff.”

78 KEN MERRELL

Mitch reached out and pulled his wife close. “I don’t know what I’d do without you. I’ll get
us out of here–promise.”

“I have no doubts. That’s why I married you.”

Vinnie  scanned the  assortment of  unopened crates  lining the  rented warehouse.  New dishwashers,
televisions, VCR’s, refrigerators  and dozens of other appliances–all  purchased using others’
credit and waiting  to cool off–were stacked to  the ceiling, awaiting new homes  in other states.
Mitch’s GTO was stowed in one corner, along with two other beautifully restored antique cars.

Angelo climbed from the driver’s  seat, a rag and a bottle of glass  cleaner in hand. Vinnie shook
his head.  “I don’t know why  you do that.  We’ve never had  one traced back yet,”  he said,
unrolling a wad of cash from his pocket.

“Just ‘cause you have money and hot-shot attorneys  don’t mean you can let down your guard,”
countered Angelo. “I been in them places before,  man, and I never wanna go back.” Angelo pulled
the car title from his pocket.

“Have it your way.” Vinnie flipped off ten  bills and handed them to his employee–petty thief,
car detailer, gopher, ferret . . . you name it,  Angelo did it. “The guy in the truck, did he have
a flat nose and pocked face?”

“He was too far away. All’s I know is that he had Utah plates.”

“Mike,” Vinnie mumbled.

“Who?”

“A dead man.”

Mike paced the floor of his shop, cell phone pressed  up to his ear, giving whoever was on the other
end an  earful. “You’re right, he’s  going to get hurt!  He’s already had his  car stolen. I
don’t know how  you do it down here,  but the offices I’ve  worked with listen to us  men in the
field. I won’t let this kid get sucked into our trap just because they start squeezing him.”

Just then Mitch pulled up to the closed shop doors to see if he could use a few of Mike’s tools to
fix  the malfunctioning  Escort. The  way  it acted  still led  him to  believe  it was  just a  bad
connection.

“You either get the kid  on the payroll or transfer me back north–”  The door opened and Mitch
entered the shop. “Hey–talk to you later. Mitch just came in.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

7 9

Mitch pointed a finger at his boss. “I didn’t know you had a cell phone.”

“Just got it.”

“Cool. Hey, mind if I take an hour to work on my wife’s car?”

“No problem. . . . How’d it go with the GTO?”

Mitch stopped, blinked  hard, then swallowed. “Not so  good.” He turned his face  toward the bay
door.

“What happened?”

“The sucker ripped me off. Planned it  for days.” His jaw tightened involuntarily. “Worst part
is . . . I think Bino set me up.”

“How’s that?”

“Claimed  he told  Janice to  tell me  not to  let him  take it.  She says  it was  the other  way
around.”

“Look, kid, you’re dealing with some bad dudes. Did you call the cops?”

“No. The car was running illegal plates.”

“Doesn’t matter. They can still take down a report.”

“I’ve got to see Janice. She knows more about him than anybody else.”

“You want some help? I might make a better snoop than a body man.” He chuckled at his joke.

“No way. You’ve  got enough problems trying to  keep this place going. Don’t  count on Vinnie,
either.”

“Why?”

Mitch’s head bowed. “He didn’t come here for you. He–he offered me a job.”

“So what’d you say?”

“The guy’s a clown. What do you think I told him?”

Mike nodded. “Look, I’ve been thinking about packing it in. I gave it a shot, but I just don’t
have what it takes. If I did, this place would be filled with customers.”

“You can do it.”

“No, the phone  got disconnected because I’m going  home. I was going to tell  you this morning,
‘til the Ferrari came in.” He watched the  kid slump dejectedly onto the shop stool. “You lost
your tools too, didn’t you?

“I couldn’t even bring myself to tell Stef. I’m supposed to leave for VICA finals Sunday.”

“Look, I paid the rent so I’ve got two weeks. Use whatever you need. 80 KEN MERRELL

Who  knows, maybe  someone’ll  offer me  a job  too?  Besides, I  know  a few  of Jimmy’s  flaky
friends–they might’ve heard where your car took off to.”

“Thanks.”

Mitch spent 20 minutes pulling the gas tank on the Escort and cleaning and tightening the connection
on the  fuel pump.  After returning the  tools to  their places on  the wall, he  headed out  to see
Janice.

“How well do you know Mike?” Vinnie demanded.

Bino was sitting  in Vinnie’s penthouse office on  the 13th floor of Three Queens.  The casino was
one of the  older buildings left standing in the  city. Fancy new gambling joints had  sprung up all
around. Vinnie  had spent a small  fortune to make  the office look and  feel like those of  the big
boys.

“Not that well.”

“He a cop?”

“Nah. . . .”

“Why was he following Angelo today?”

“How should I  know?” Bino reached over to adjust  the valve on his oxygen tank.  His heart rate
was rising by the second.

“This Mike moves into town  and just happens to meet up with you. The next  thing I know he steals
my best painter and half the car junkies from  my shop. The guy can’t paint–and you don’t know
nothin’

‘bout him?”

“As far as I know . . . the guy’s what he says he is.” Bino again adjusted the valve.

Vinnie stalked across the room and plunked down on  the leather sofa next to Bino. “If you’re on
the take,”  he sneered,  taking hold  of the  slender hose  connected to  Bino’s nose  piece and
kinking it between his fingers, “you won’t live long  enough to pay another dime of your debt to
me.”

The frail man began to gasp for air and pawing helplessly at Vinnie’s hand.

“I need the kid.  He’s got talent and I got  three cahs comin’ in from Jersey  that need to be
cleaned up. You do what you gotta do to get him on the hook. Wouldn’t want your bones licked clean
by the coyotes like those–”

He released the hose. Bino gulped in the precious oxygen. “What’s the kid need?”

“Money,” Bino said, panting. “He’s . . . broke.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

8 1

“Then make him a hard loan.”

82 KEN MERRELL

TWELVE

KEEPING AN  EYE ON  THE STATION from  across the  street seemed  like the right  thing to  do. Mitch
reached down by the floor in front of him, felt for the lever, and forced the Escort’s bucket seat
into a  reclining position.  He weighed how  best to  approach Janice about  the earlier  mix-up and
wondered how loyal she would be to Bino.

A city bus pulled to the curb between the  Escort and the Husky station, blocking his view. A ragged
man stepped from the open  door, clutching in his hand a manila envelope. He  paused at the curb and
glanced around. Mitch looked away in hopes the man  wouldn’t hit him up for a handout. Three lousy
dollars was all that was left in his wallet.

From the corner of his eye Mitch saw the man maneuver himself across the busy street and stop at the
pay booth, where Janice slid open the glass window.  She gave a nod, then pointed below and tried to
wave  the man  away. Stooping  low,  the indigent  fellow opened  the  mail drop  and deposited  the
envelope.

Mitch sat  up, taking notice  of the strange  episode, and watched the  man stagger back  across the
traffic and take a seat on the bus-stop bench less than 30 feet away.

The station hadn’t had a single paying customer in  the 20 minutes Mitch had been there. He raised
the seat back up, pulled across the street to the station, pumped three dollars of gas into his tank
and approached the window.

“Hi, Mitch,” Janice sputtered, red-faced. “I’m so sorry about your car. Did you find it?”

“Nah, it’s long gone.  . . .” He pushed the crumpled bills  across the counter. “Sorry about
the small purchase. I was counting on the sale of the  car to help . . .” His voice trailed off. A
wave of despair swept across the woman’s face like a scorching

THE IDENTITY CHECK

8 3

desert wind. “Bino’s been  telling me I’m getting forgetful.” Her  jowls drooped like melted
wax.

Mitch felt  guilty for turning up  the heat, but  he needed answers. And  now was the time  to start
getting them. “Had you ever seen the guy before?”

She shook her head. “I don’t think I saw him at all.”

“Yesterday when you left you were almost sure Bino had told you to let the guy take my car.”

“Unless  I’m losing  my  mind, I’d  still  swear to  it.”  She turned  to  watch a  beat-up,
lime-green Ford sedan  full of rowdies squeal into  the station on thread bare  tires. The passenger
door swung open  and slammed against the  hinges even before the  vehicle came to a  stop. Mitch and
Janice looked on as a large girl in her  late teens, wearing a tight, low-cut tank-top and revealing
shorts, struggled to climb off the lap of the  male passenger in the front seat. She kicked an empty
beer can from  the cluttered floor, landed on the  concrete with one foot, and hopped  from the car,
screaming. Her body jiggled as she spun around to  swat at the retracting arm of the male passenger.
In doing  so, the manila envelope  she held in  her hand grazed  the man’s cheek. Probably  in his
mid-twenties, he tilted his head back in a cynical laugh, seen but unheard over the pounding beat of
the vibrating music that rattled the vehicle.

The woman promenaded over  to where Mitch was standing, waving her wide  hips with a sexual flourish
at the carload  of single-minded men. Mitch, not about  to stand in her way, gave  her a wide berth.
She bent over at the  mail drop beneath the teller window and peered back  between her thick arm and
heavy breasts to see if the men were still  watching. Then, as her finale, she recklessly jammed the
envelope into the opening.

Mitch observed the  faces of the men as the  woman waltzed back to the car  and precariously climbed
into the back seat, lounging among the outstretched  tentacles of her waiting male harem. One of the
men kept his face  conspicuously obscured by the center post between the  car windows. Mitch stepped
to one side. Against the glare of the setting sun glancing through the back window, he could clearly
see Andy Kostecki among the car’s occupants. Then the roudy vehicle lurched from the station.

“What was that all about?” Mitch asked as the beer can, driven by 84 KEN MERRELL

the undying desert breeze, rolled across the concrete and came to a stop next to his shoe.

“It’s the same every Friday night. They pay their bills using the drop.”

Mitch lifted his foot and stomped the aluminum cylinder flat.

“They’re actual paying customers?”

“I guess so.”

“You’ve seen ‘em buy gas?”

“I’m not sure–I only work part-time. . . .”

Mitch bent  down as he  spoke, freed the  envelope from  its jammed position  in the mail  drop, and
artfully slid  it up  the side  of his  pant leg,  simultaneously retrieving  the flattened  can and
depositing it in the nearby receptacle. From her perch, Janice was completely unaware of what he’d
done.  “Something’s outta  place  here,” he  mused,  half to  himself. “I  know  one of  the
passengers in that car, a big-time loser. Hasn’t worked an honest day in his life.”

“I’ve often thought things seemed odd myself. I  keep my mouth shut, though, ‘cause I need the
extra income. Please don’t say anything to Bino.”

“I won’t say a word. . . . Can I ask one more question?”

“Sure.”

“Where does he get all the hot stuff he sells?”

“That! He’s a big bag of wind. Says the  kids buy the close-out junk better if they think it’s
stolen. The  police have come plenty  of times over the  years asking for his  proof-of-purchase. He
thinks it’s  a game. Uh, speaking  of the bag of  wind . . .”  Both turned to see  Bino’s Audi
wheeze into the station. “He always locks up on Friday nights. Not a word now–you promised.”

“Yep.”

Bino wrestled with his oxygen, dragging it to the booth. “Any luck with the goat?” he huffed.

“The real Jose Vasquez is five-foot-six, three-hundred-fifty pounds. Got set-up, just like me.”

Janice gathered  her things and made  for the door. “G’night,  boys. I’m going home  before it
gets dark. Sorry again, Mitch, for being so forgetful.”

Mitch sought to turn off the heat before she  went home. “It’s not your fault. He probably would
have gotten it anyway.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

8 5

“What do you mean . . . ‘set-up’?” Bino  plopped down in his swivel chair and leaned forward
wearily to rest his elbows on the desk–and to light up a new smoke. He adjusted a brass frame that
sat on the desk. “My daughter–12 next week.”

“She’s a pretty girl.”

“Takes after her  mother. . . . Shame neither  one of them like me much.”  Bino fiddled with the
valve on his tank.

“You supposed to smoke around oxygen?”

“Why not. .  . . It ain’t blown up  yet. ‘Sides, if it did .  . . it might do me  a favor. Now
tell me . . . about the set-up.”

Mitch let out  a sigh. “He started making calls  to the dealer days before he  ripped off the 300,
just to convince me he was legit. I fell for it hook, line and sinker.”

“I warned Janice  . . . not to  let him take it.  Something didn’t feel right. Did  you call the
cops?”

“Not yet.”

“I’ve got a friend . . .”

“No.”  Mitch didn’t  need any  more of  Bino’s friends.  “I’ve got  to think  this thing
through.”

“Your car.  . . .”  The tension was  as thick as  the haze that  hovered inside the  small room.
“Driving the wife’s car, I see,” said Bino, finally.

“I put my last three bucks of gas in it.”

“The guy that owns this place . . . he’s a banker of sorts–”

“I don’t know  how he stays in business,”  Mitch interrupted with a smirk.  “I’ve been the
only paying customer here in the last 30 minutes.”

“My point exactly. . . . He bought the place . . . a year ago because

. . .  the owners were upside-down.” Bino  drew a long drag  on the glowing stick, let  out a hard
cough, yet another, and plowed on. “The place is . . . scheduled to be demolished . . . this fall.
New . . . fuel tank regulations.” The coughing fit resumed, the color flushing into Bino’s face.

“You okay?”

Bino, ignoring the question,  rolled the near-spent cigarette in the ashtray  and wiped the moisture
from his bloodshot  eyes. “What I’m trying  . . . to  tell you is he’ll  loan you . .  . a few
bucks if  you need  it. I  know . .  . you  were counting  on the  . . .  the sale  to take  care of
things.”

86 KEN MERRELL

“Thanks, but I think I’ll go see my grandpa this weekend. He’ll usually help me out.”

“Whatever. It’s here . . . if ya need  it.” Bino crushed the cigarette butt in the tray Janice
had emptied, shook another from the pack, and eased it between his lips.

Mitch leaned his elbows on the counter. It was now or never. He spoke abruptly. “It might be a few
days before I pay you. Do you want me to leave it in the mail drop if you’re not here?”

Bino’s poker face  gave up the game as he  pivoted sharply, let the unlit cigarette  fall from his
lips, and fumbled  for an answer. “My good  customers . . . pay in  person. . . . Uh,  by the way,
Vinnie . .  . told me he offered you  . . . a job. .  . .” Bino had faltered trying  to change the
subject. Bino was in on  the racket–Mitch knew it, and Bino knew he knew  it. The pathetic man was
trying to blow smoke and mirrors at the lost hand.

“He’s a wise-guy. Tell him to ask Mike–he’s looking.”

“I’ll do that.”

Mitch had been betrayed. Now he fixed his stare  on the traitor. “I’ll find my car, you know,”
he said  before turning to leave.  Once the Escort’s shrill  whine had faded into  the night, Bino
hung his head and struck a match. He spoke softly to himself. “Sorry, kid. .

. . I  hope you do.” Hesitating, he shook  out the match, pulled the cigarette  from his lips with
his nicotine-stained thumb and forefinger, and heaved out a shallow breath.

Mitch drove half a block  to the grocery store and pulled next to the  phone booth. He extracted the
envelope from his  pant leg to examine its  contents. A blank credit card application  and a voucher
slip with  a four-digit number was  all that was inside.  Mitch placed a fingertip  to his forehead.
What was going  on? He read the  address on the application. It  was only three blocks  from his own
home. Scrounging through the ash tray, Mitch dug out enough change to call Stephanie. She had almost
learned to tolerate his  late hours without complaint. Her visits to the  rest home had softened the
late hours Mitch worked. He’d never outright lied to her. And this “delayed truth,”

he  rationalized,  would be  no  different.  She didn’t  need  to  worry. Besides,  she’d  never
understand the story behind the stolen GTO and his reasons for spying on Bino. Repairing her car for
a few more hours

THE IDENTITY CHECK

8 7

seemed to be a much better excuse.

“It’s alright,” Stephanie replied. “Anyway, we’ll be at Heritage Care until after ten.”

Mitch checked his  watch and shook his head.  It seemed like they were drifting  further and further
apart. She was finding ways to be less dependent on  him all the time, and he wasn’t sure he liked
it. “Well, Maggie’ll be here in a minute, so I’ll see you later.”

“I’ll see you at home,” he said coolly. “Have a good time.”

Stephanie sensed the tautness  behind her husband’s response. He’d never said  so, but it bugged
him that  she found such  joy in serving  others. “Maggie just honked–I’ve  got to go.  I love
you.”

“I love you, too.” The words rang guilt in his thoughts. He hung up the phone.

Mitch left the car and  proceeded on foot across the parking lot leading  back to the Husky station.
It didn’t take much effort to scale the chain-link fence that ran along the rear. He crept through
the lowgrown  weeds that  had sprung up  between the oil-stained  gravel, until  he came to  a small
abandoned lot  behind the  fuel tanks–once  used to  sell bulk  fuel. The  station’s fluorescent
lights shown in stark contrast  against the gloomy sky. The place was a  dump. It didn’t even sell
candy bars, let alone groceries or fast food.

As he wove between the tanks, Mitch noticed someone  else parked at the station. Just as before, the
driver got out and shoved an envelope through the drop. The only logical answer to the stolen credit
applications was stolen credit–something  Mitch had heard of but knew  virtually nothing about. 88
KEN MERRELL

THIRTEEN

EDDIE BENT TO PICK UP the last of the  scattered free weights. Heaving it onto his bony shoulder, he
replaced it  on the rack. The  gym had evolved  into a dump of  human steroid waste since  Clint had
taken over. Now Eddie was  in grieving, his moral conscience tormented. All he  could do was look on
helplessly as  his grandson turned  an honest living  into a front  for organized crime  and illegal
steroid sales. The 80-year-old man, an ex-middleweight champ, fought daily with the decision whether
to turn the  young tough in or continue  to turn a deaf ear  and hope his own life  ended before the
joint suffered a final-round knock-out blow.

The boisterous voices from the upstairs offices tugged at Eddie’s curiosity. The building in which
he’d spent the majority  of his adult life echoed the clatter of  undisciplined living. More often
than not, the racket  drove him from his cramped, main-floor studio apartment  out onto the streets,
where he  would walk for miles.  Clint was a ladies’  man, frequently inviting the  girls from the
escort service next door over to party. Thinking the moment would be a good opportunity to collect a
few more condemning notes on the illegal goings-on,  Eddie crept up the rickety staircase to see who
the visitors were.  On his way, the  old man dug his handkerchief  from his back pocket  to stifle a
sneeze caused  by a  pesky nose  hair, listened  to see if  he’d been  detected, then  renewed his
ascent.

Halfway up  the stairs Eddie  heard Clint’s doorbell  ring. He stopped  and waited. The  bell rang
again–this time long and hard. Finally Clint’s  muffled voice cried out over the giggles, “Who
is it?”

A cold, harsh voice crackled over the intercom. “Vinnie. Open up!”

Clint had installed  an alarm in the  basement and an electric  door lock and intercom  on the front
door to  free himself from having  to go down  to let anyone in  after hours. The door  lock buzzed.
Trapped between Vinnie coming from below and Clint’s office window above, Eddie, his old

THE IDENTITY CHECK

8 9

heart racing, scrambled to the top of the stairs,  seeking refuge. He crept past the window and into
the jumbled storage space across  the hall. Luckily, Clint was far too busy  to notice. It was then,
safely  ensconced in  the darkness,  that Eddie  fully realized  what he’d  witnessed through  the
curtainless  glass. He  drew back  sharply, embarrassed–even  as a  seasoned old  fighter–by the
sight, now permanently etched into his brain. He pressed the door mostly shut and stared through the
crack into the well-lit office. Vinnie’s head appeared as he ascended the stairway. Then he paused
and stooped to pick up an object from the second  to the last step. Eddie looked on as the racketeer
resumed his march up the stairs, thumbing through a small black notebook. The old man reached to his
hip. The horrible realization hit him harder than he’d ever been hit in the ring: the notebook had
fallen from his pocket when he stopped to wipe his nose.

Pausing  in the  hallway, Vinnie  read from  the book,  his jaw  muscles alternately  tightening and
releasing as if in  spasm. Brusquely, he seized the doorknob to Clint’s  office and flung the door
inward with a thunderous crash.

“Vinnie . . . come join the party!” Clint’s  inebriated voice was slurred as he raised a drink
in the air.

The menacing, frenzied expression  on Vinnie’s face sent the three  girls scrambling. “Get outta
here and  back to  work!” he  howled. The half-dressed  women promptly  gathered their  things and
tip-toed around Vinnie, still firmly planted in the doorway.

With the girls out of earshot, Vinnie hissed, “Bino called–said you missed the pickup!”

Clint, unperturbed, reached over  and buzzed the automatic door to let the  girls out. “I’ll get
it tomorrow,”  he shrugged, still  cheery. Vinnie’s face reddened  in anger. The  young punk’s
attitude was too  much to take. Almost  in a single motion  he jerked a handgun  from the silk-lined
jacket of his  suit, rammed up against  Clint and shoved its  barrel up his nose.  “You better get
your act  together,” he snarled, “or  I’ll find a replacement  for you just like  that.” The
hammer on the weapon clicked into the firing position. Clint’s expression sank and his tanned face
blanched as he stared, cross-eyed, down the cold metal shaft.

Meanwhile, Eddie, outraged  by what he was seeing,  swept the door open and  started silently across
the hall to protect his only grandchild. Step-90 KEN MERRELL

ping unnoticed inside the entryway adjoining the room, he listened as the entire exchange ricocheted
through the air  and vibrated along the walls.  The old man, breathing hard, quietly  swung the door
closed, leaving it slightly ajar.

“Now tell me what this is,” Vinnie demanded, dropping the black book on the table.

Clint  sat up,  sober-faced,  fully attentive,  and  flicked  the hair  from  his face.  “That’s
Gramps’ weight book.”

“I know that. I’ve seen the old fart write in it.” Grabbing a handful of Clint’s hair in his
fist and shoving his face  forward, Vinnie drove his point home. “Take a  look at what he’s been
writing, you stupid ox!”

Clint fumbled at the  book’s pages and tried to focus–a difficult task  with his face crushed so
close to  the table. “The  old man’s been  spying on me!” Clint  barked. His right  hand still
firmly attached to Clint’s  hair, Vinnie reached with his left hand and  retrieved his cell phone.
His already  peeved tone  took on an  even more grouchy  air. “Angelo”,  he yelled as  he shoved
Clints head back, “I need  you to take care of the pickup at Bino’s. Bring  it to the gym. Clint
and me  got some  business to take  care of.”  Depositing the  phone back in  his suit  pocket, he
centered his gaze  once more on his cowering  target and, through clenched teeth,  said, “Time the
old man took a fall.” Clint nodded in agreement. Eddie, his quivering hand still on the door, felt
his heart about to explode. The grandson he’d been willing to risk his life for had just agreed to
kill him. Cocking  his ear to the side, he  discovered that the voices had become  both more subdued
and sinister.

“You go get the old  man and I’ll find somethin’ to whack him with.  We’ll make it look like
he fell down  the back steps.” The doorknob  turned practically in Eddie’s hand.  “That way we
won’t have the place crawlin’ with cops.”

Eddie again ducked  for cover, this time behind a  stack of nearby boxes. Once Clint  had wormed out
into the  hallway, Vinnie entered the  room and flipped on  the lights, his eyes  darting about. His
gaze fixed on a square  weight bar lying on a some crates at  Eddie’s back. Eddie readied himself.
The upper-cut  left hook oughta do  the trick, he  thought, doubling up  his fists. It was  the same
punch that  had won him his  first professional fight  back in 1938.  This Jersey boy with  the hard
lookin’

THE IDENTITY CHECK

9 1

face probably has a glass jaw anyway.

Mitch, sitting  atop a  discarded five-gallon  bucket he’d  found among  the towering  fuel tanks,
watched a four door  Nissan pull into the station and  its driver hop out to open  the trunk. It was
almost eleven and  he’d seen at least 30 people  drive into the place and drop  envelopes into the
mail slot. Only  two had actually purchased  gas. Bino had made  a couple of calls;  other than that
he’d spent the entire evening puffing on one Camel after another.

The newest patron ambled  from the open trunk to the booth’s sliding  glass door, carrying a metal
box. Bino  got to  his feet  and waved  his hands in  an irritated  gesture. Something  seemed oddly
familiar to Mitch. . . . Then it dawned on him:  the guy with the box was the one who’d stolen his
car!

Mitch stood,  took two  steps forward  and grasped  the top  rail of  the six-foot  chain-link fence
dividing the  storage area from the  parking lot. Then he  hesitated. If he confronted  the piece of
trash now, what would it accomplish? A better  option was to follow the Chicano–but there wasn’t
time for  Mitch to get to  his vehicle. Within  seconds, the car  thief had retrieved the  metal box
inside the pay booth, replaced  it with the one he carried, hopped back into  his car and sped away.
Mitch made a mental note of the license plate  number, though he doubted it would ever prove useful.
Mitch’s heaving chest and  rising pulse rate served as painful reminders of  the hundreds of hours
of sweat–not to  mention thousands of dollars–he’d  spent on the GTO, now  in someone else’s
hands. Something else was  also painfully disheartening: he’d gotten all the  proof he needed that
his one-time friend Bino was  as dirty as they came. Vinnie lowered his  head and stepped around the
boxes, dropping his  guard just enough. Eddie struck like  a wizened old cobra. His blow  was on the
mark. Vinnie’s head snapped back–and as the ex-champ  had guessed, the Jersey rat dropped to the
ground like a wet towel on a dirty locker room floor.

“He’s not down  here!” yelled Clint from  below. There was no response.  Eddie’s eyes darted
around the room, seeking an escape route.

“Maybe he  went out walking,” Clint  called out again. The  old man clambered to  the window and
raised it up. 92 KEN MERRELL

“Nurse! .  . . Nurse!”  he called out as  loud as he  dared. “Nurse .  . . you and  Belle down
there?”

Greg, hearing the  hushed cries, raised his  head from off the  smelly pillow. Nurse was  not in the
small enclosure. He crawled to the carpet that sheathed the opening and eased it aside. There was an
old man above, crouched in the open window.

“Nurse–that you? Get help–Clint’s trying to kill me!”

Clint’s calls from  the base of the  stairs grew more impatient.  “Vinnie, did you hear  me? . .
.”

Eddie squinted down at the alley below. There was no way his old body could take a two-story plunge.
Nor could he take on his grandson. Besides being young, Clint was a talented fighter with a rockhard
jaw. If respect had given  way to greed, he could easily whip the old  man. Ironically, if there was
one thing  Eddie had taught  the boy, it  was to be tough.  In fact, the  only things that  had kept
Clint’s temper  intact when Vinnie  had grabbed him  by the hair, had  been the gun  in Vinnie’s
hand, one too many  drinks, and a hunger to run  the operation when the timing was  right to move up
the ladder.

“Vinnie?”

The shriveled old  boxer nervously glanced around the  room for any ideas. The  laundry chute! Eddie
remembered the failed laundry that once occupied the building. When the company had gone belly-up 25
years earlier–not enough business from the  neighboring casinos–Eddie, in cleaning the place up,
had nailed  the chute doors shut  to prevent young  Clint from falling  to the basement when  he was
first learning to walk.

Vinnie let out a soft moan and began to stir. The effects of the whiplash Eddie had laid on him were
wearing off. Eddie hunched  over the crumpled gangster and withdrew the handgun  from under his silk
jacket. Stuffing it down the front of his own pants, the old man in the white tank top scurried past
the crates  of used weights  to the far  wall. The  first step squeaked  its familiar tune  as Clint
started up the  stairs. Sinewy hands grappled at the  dusty door. Eddie fought to yank  it open, but
the rusty nails  held. Vinnie moaned again  as Clint jostled into the  room and bent to  pry open an
eyelid of his fallen ally. Clint knew well the look of a cold-cocked opponent, and stood to look for
the perpetrator.

Eddie peered over the crates; Clint’s head swivelled warily, his fists

THE IDENTITY CHECK

9 3

bunched up. “Gramps, come on out. . . . I’m not gonna hurt my own grandpa.”

He inched over to the window. Nurse was pushing her cart down the alley below.

“Maybe, maybe not,” Eddie mumbled to himself. He drew  the gun from his pants and raised it with
both hands. He couldn’t kill  his own flesh and blood, but he might be able  to slow him down long
enough to get away.

Suddenly Clint stepped in  Eddie’s direction. Raised up as if to shield  his face, the old man’s
hands began  to shake–not  from fear  but out  of sorrow. Could  he pull  the trigger?  Then Clint
wrenched around  like a startled cat  at the sound  of the door  buzzer. He, too, was  shaking. What
Vinnie had  tried to  do had crossed  the line.  His only hope  was to  get the old  man out  of the
building before Vinnie came to.  The door buzzed again. Clint left the room  to answer the caller on
the intercom. Eddie lowered the  gun; his kin had been saved by the bell. He  had only a few seconds
to act. He reached to the disassembled weight machine a  few feet in front of his face and removed a
flat bar. Jamming it under the lip of the door like a crowbar, he pried the chute open, snapping the
antique nails like the brittle stitches of a worn out glove.

Vinnie grunted and rolled to  his side. Eddie knew it was time to either use  the gun or take a dive
before the  wiseguy came to.  A stale smell wafted  up from the  two-and-a-half-foot-square opening.
Cobwebs hung silky and thick. Eddie brandished the gun  like a sword and slashed them away. A shiver
went up his spine.

Rough-cut lumber, polished smooth in the center, lined the chute’s interior. Small horizontal gaps
in the dried, shrunken  wood allowed enough space for Eddie’s partially  crippled fingers to grip.
Pulling his  wiry frame through  the narrow space,  he lifted himself  into the murky  hollow, hands
clinging to the walls like  a crab wedged between two wet rocks, his  feet pushing against one wall,
his back and buttocks against the one opposite.

Eddie pulled the squeaky  door closed. Slowly, cautiously, he began to inch  his tired old body down
to the next floor. He  let out a silent chuckle: just look at the  depths to which his eavesdropping
had taken him!

Clint reappeared in time to see Vinnie, still groggy, stagger to his knees and brace himself against
the closest stack of boxes. “What happened?”

94 KEN MERRELL

Hunching forward,  Vinnie shook his  head in an  attempt to sweep the  stars from his  addled brain.
“The old man popped me–must ‘a hit me with a pipe or somethin’.”

“Bare fist,” Clint said with a hint of pride. “Got a fist like a brick.”

Not far  below, Eddie, making  little progress in  his descent,  felt a sting  in his right  arm. He
slapped at the  spot and felt the unmistakable crunch  of a spider among the layers  of cobwebs. The
haunting  thought of  the black  widows he’d  exterminated in  the basement  kindled within  him a
venomous dread. Consciously calming his nerves, he  couldn’t help but hear the intensifying shouts
from above.

“I’m gonna  kill the old codger!”  Vinnie reached for his  pocket. “Took my piece,  too, the
s.o.b.”

Just then Angelo entered the room, the metal box from Bino in tow.

“Where you want  this, man?” He wagged a  chin at Vinnie–then did a  double-take. “Whoa. You
look like you been kicked by a burro. Who popped you?”

The voices droned on above  him. Eddie had only traveled halfway to the next  floor when he felt his
muscles cramp up. His legs shook from fatigue; his  sore back cried out. Knowing that if he didn’t
straighten out soon he’d lose  all control, he reached for the boards. If he  could just hang on a
few seconds more, he could  hoist himself up and find room to stretch his  legs. At that very moment
on the floor  above, Vinnie was straightening himself  up from the boxes to prove  he wasn’t badly
hurt. As his buckling knees hit the floor, the board Eddie had clutched simultaneously gave way, and
down  he  went, his  limbs  banging  against  the chute’s  walls  as  he plummeted  the  remaining
twoand-a-half stories, where he  landed on a dilapidated wooden platform,  which, giving way, helped
break his fall.

Above, Vinnie careened backward, smashing against  a box filled with outdated weightlifting devices.
The spilling  plates and  bars clattered onto  the warped, hardwood  floor. Stunned,  Vinnie whacked
Clint’s helping  hands away and straightened  the collar of his  suit. “Get ya hands  off; I’m
fine. . . . The old man’s as good as dead–now find him.”

Angelo, a look  of terror on his  face, set down the box.  “Adios, I’m a thief,  no mas.” With
that, he sprinted out the door and back down the stairs.

Clint turned  back to Vinnie.  “He’s not here.  He must’a jumped out  the window after  he hit
you.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

9 5

Vinnie shuffled  over to the window,  still shaky in  the knees, and  peered out at the  hard ground
below. “If he jumped, he’s got two broken legs for sure.”

Down in  the alleyway, Nurse’s  shopping cart was  tucked out of sight  behind the power  box. She
listened  closely  to  Greg’s  report  of  what  he’d seen  and  heard.  Peeking  out  from  her
carpet-covered sanctuary, she  stared up at Vinnie, hulking  like a dark stone gargoyle  in the open
window. His  grim specter  cast a  long shadow  across the  alley floor  and up  the filth-encrusted
buildings opposite–buildings he’d soon tear down to make way for his own casino.

Stephanie slid a chair across the care center  cafeteria’s tiled floor, parking it close to an old
woman. Her crippled hands rested on the arms of her wheelchair. A tattered book rested on her lap. A
fringe of snow-white hair was flattened against the back of her gaunt head. She stared out through a
pair of thick glasses, her gaze fixed upon the long row of windows at the far side of the room.

“Hello,  Mrs. Russell,”  Stephanie called  out in  a loud  voice. “How  have you  been?” The
hunched old woman  slowly turned and looked  up, then beamed with  joy at the sight  of her visitor.
Mrs. Effie Russell  raised a shaking hand–spotted  with age and still adorned  by an old-fashioned
wedding band–and  pointed at  the window.  “I’ve been  sitting here  looking out  all evening,
hoping you would come. You’re such a sweet girl.”

Stephanie reached down and stroked Effie’s hand. “I love coming to see you.”

The old woman brought her other hand over and rested it on the young woman’s smooth arm. “Do you
know . . . I can’t even see the stars from the city lights. . . . I miss the stars.”

“I know you do. . . .”

“I used to sit on the porch, waiting for Fred to come home from working on the dam. I could always
see the stars then. . . . I wonder what’s keeping Fred tonight . . .”

Stephanie smiled sadly. “Effie, Fred passed away 12 years ago, remember?”

“He did?” Effie, her back forming a question  mark, sat in silence, waiting for the recollection
to settle in.

Stephanie waited an instant, then said cheerfully, “I brought some 96 KEN MERRELL

perfume. Would you like me to put some on for you?”

Effie raised her head and returned to the moment. “That would be real nice, dear. You always smell
so  good.” The  invitation accepted,  Stephanie opened  her  hand bag,  removed a  small vial  and
unscrewed the lid. Effie’s brow furrowed. “Now what was the name of that dam?”

“Hoover Dam.” Stephanie gently rubbed each side of Effie’s neck with her fingers.

“Herbert Hoover,” Effie  nodded, reaffixing it in  her memory. “Will he be  running for office
again this year?”

“I don’t think so.”

“Probably for the  best. It’s been hard for Fred  to make a living for us.  . . .What’s taking
him so long tonight?

“I’m not sure. Would you like me to read while we wait?”

Effie nodded, “I’d like that.”

Stephanie stepped behind  the old woman’s wheelchair  and glided her down the  corridor toward her
room. Through  an open  door, Maggie  could be  seen, brushing  the hair  of another  elderly woman,
pausing occasionally to touch her arm, smile, and respond to her comments.

“Which nightgown would you like to wear tonight?” Stephanie asked.

Effie thought. “The new pink one my mother bought me  for my birthday. . . . My father bought me a
book, too.” The old woman’s words were slow and frayed, but her tone was young and full of life.

“The Secret Garden.”

Stephanie placed  the old book  on the nightstand  and helped Effie dress  for bed. The  young woman
brushed Effie’s fine, snowy locks, rubbed lotion on her hands and feet, pulled the covers down and
positioned her near the bed. Effie bowed her head in prayer and offered up a prayer, a simple prayer
of thanks and supplication. Then Stephanie helped her climb in and pulled the covers up.

“It’s there  on the dresser.”  Effie pointed  at the worn,  leatherbound book with  its broken
locking strap. “Read me the  inscription in the front . . .” Her  words trailed off, replaced by
the distant remembrance of the words penned on the brittle pages.

Stephanie opened the book, its cover faded at  the edges. She had almost memorized the tender words.
My Dearest Effie, You are growing to be such  a beautiful youngwoman, now nine years old. I am proud
of you and wish I could be at

THE IDENTITY CHECK

9 7

home more often. Your mother tells me you are a great help with yournew baby brother.

“George,” Effie whispered.

Stephanie continued. I met this  woman, Mrs. Burnett, on a train toNew York.  When she told me about
her new book,  I just had to  buy youa copy. I  hope you enjoy it.  I’ll see you in  a few months.
Love, Daddy. The author’s inscription was dated  April 28, 1912, and signed, ToEffie: Best wishes,
Frances  Hodgson Burnett.  A single  tear trickled  down the  crevasses of  Effie’s aged  face and
disappeared into the branches of wrinkled skin. “I never  saw him again. Ship sank on the way back
from London.”

Waiting for  the painful memory to  fade, Stephanie turned to  the bookmark. Each page  clung to the
ones on either side. They reminded Stephanie of  fallen maple leaves stuck to a wet lawn. “Chapter
23, Magic,”  she began. “Dr.  Craven had been  waiting . . .”  Some blocks away,  Mitch, still
perched in the  darkness, was watching Bino fill  out the end-of-day deposits, close  out the credit
card machine, hit the  lights, lock up the booth, and limp across  the parking lot in semi-darkness.
He stopped to  unlock the door to the Audi,  then pulled out a cigarette to  light up. The flame’s
glow cast an eerie shadow across Bino’s normally friendly countenance.

Gripping the top of the fence, Mitch jumped up,  gained a foothold on the rail, and vaulted over the
chain-link barrier,  landing just inches from  the rattled Bino.  “You set me up,”  he screamed,
getting up in the face of the two-bit fence, “didn’t you?” The cigarette tumbled from Bino’s
lips and  glanced off  the side of  the car,  sending a  tiny cascade of  sparks onto  the crumbling
asphalt at Bino’s sandaled  feet. Bino stepped back, breathing hard,  clutching desperately at his
gaunt chest. Mitch  clicked open the car  door and helped his  ex-friend sit down. “I  want my car
back, and  you better  not lie to  me again.”  Mitch held  tightly to the  nap of  Bino’s shirt,
waiting for a reply.

“You have . . . no clue . . . what you’re up against,” Bino finally blurted out.

“The odds’ve been stacked against me before.”

“They’ll kill me–and you too.”

“Not if I can help it. Who are they?”

Bino’s gaze fell. “I was an honest . . . gambler, up ‘til a year ago. . . 98 KEN MERRELL

. Come from . . . a long line of cops. Guess you . . . could say I’m the . . .

‘bad hand’ of the family.”

The gravity in Mitch’s voice was evident. “Who are they?” he demanded again.

“Walk away, kid.  . . . Take the  loss . . . on  the car. . . .  Borrow the . . .  money from your
grandpa . . . and don’t ever look back.”

Mitch hauled  Bino close.  The words  rose up  from his  throat in  a prolonged,  threatening growl.
“Bino, who are they?”

“Listen . . . to what I’m tellin’ ya’. . . . Don’t borrow money . . . fromme–and don’t
take . . . Vinnie’s job.”

Mitch looked the washed-up gambler in the eye. Bino was afraid!

Scared silly. And that was no bluff.

. . .  They always called it  Magic, and indeed it  seemed like it in  themonths that followed–the
wonderful  months–the radiant  months–theamazing ones.  Oh! the  things which  happened in  that
garden! Stephanie looked up from the yellowed pages.  Effie was sound asleep. Her face was peaceful,
her dreams floating in the sunshine of distant memories, clear and sweet.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

9 9

FOURTEEN

MITCH ROUSED FROM  a restless night’s sleep. He’d  driven to every hangout in  town the previous
night, hoping beyond hope  to find his car. Stephanie rolled over to  greet him, running her fingers
through his tangle of blond hair. “What time’d you get finished?” she asked.

“Late . . .” he yawned, “but I found the problem. Shouldn’t give you anymore trouble–for a
while, at least.”

Early-morning rays  trickled through the bedroom  blinds, their shafts turning  his wife’s flowing
tresses into soft  golden threads of light. Mitch  lay still, tethered to the sight,  basking in the
moment. “You  are so  beautiful.” He  nuzzled his  face in  the shimmering  strands, distracting
himself from the glare of a guilty conscience. “Let’s go get you some clothes.”

“Not so fast, bud.”  She wriggled close and wrapped her long, slender  leg around his. Eddie’s
gym didn’t open  at its usual early hour. The  small army of homeless friends had  spent the night
taking orders from Nurse. All had reported no unusual activity.

Ritter had come from  his new home under I-15 and  spent most of the night on the  bench in front of
American Biomedical. Smitty  had taken over around 4:00  a.m., and was still at his  post when Nurse
checked in at 7:30. She’d brought someone along with her.

“Smitty, this  here’s a friend  ‘a mine.”  Though still swollen  from sunburn, Greg  was now
dressed in acceptable attire.  Nurse rambled on. “Fer now, least, goes  by ‘Sunny’. He’s the
one heard Eddie hollerin’

for help.  You already  know Belle.”  Smitty grinned  and blinked  vigorously. Today  Greg noticed
something different  about the old  woman. In contrast  to her earlier  behavior, she beamed  with a
strange confidence 100 KEN MERRELL

he couldn’t explain.

“Smitty’s our  resident lock-pick. Comes  in handy now and  again. Doesn’t say  nothin’, but
that don’t mean  he ain’t smart.” Nurse motioned  down the street. “Smitty, can  you go find
Cap’n? Need him to take charge keepin’

watch.”

Smitty got up from the bench and ran his hand  down the brown fuzz that clung in small clumps to his
heavily  scarred face.  His body  seemed suspended  in  air. He  blinked his  eyes, considering  her
request, then  nodded in agreement. After  massaging his patchy beard  one more time, he  pulled his
thread-bare Yankees  cap down  low over  his gangly eyebrows,  hunkered down  like a  freight train,
stuffed one thumb under his red suspenders, and set off on his disproportionately long legs.

“Not like  Eddie to  open so  late, is  it Belle?” The  old woman  cocked her  ear to  the side,
listening, then gave a  nod. “Belle says she thinks he’s hurt, or  maybe worse.” The old woman
fluttered a finger at Greg,  then motioned to the bench. “Now you sit right  here in the shade and
keep track  a who’s  comin’ and  goin’. Cap’n‘ll find  a replacement,  if’n he  comes on
duty.” Nurse  smacked her  empty gums. “Belle  and I ‘ll  go’n rustle  up some grub  so your
stomach don’t eat a hole in yer backbone.”

Greg took a  seat and watched the  morning unfold–totally oblivious to his  own problems. Concerns
that had seemed so monumental before now seemed  so petty. His perspective had changed, perhaps from
witnessing how his new friends were able to meet head-on the arduous task of living, and from seeing
how deeply  they cared for one  another. Their burdens seemed  heavy, yet they watched  out for each
other like family.

Twenty minutes later Nurse returned with a middle-aged  man who wore a long-sleeve white shirt and a
straw hat.  A pasty layer of  sun block was smeared  over his nose. “Sound,  here‘ll spell ya’
off, Sunny. You just as well come an’ meet Reverend Keller, seein’ I got to go there to get some
grub anyways.”  She took Greg by  the hand and  lifted him from  the bench, then turned  to Sound.
“We’ll be back in a couple hours. Keep an eye out, hear?”

The left side of the man’s mouth drew up in an annoyed pout. “You don’t need to tell me again.
I already heard it three times.”

Nurse shot him a  patronizing glare and grunted through her loose lips,  which seemed to rattle from
the passing air.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

101

“Okay, okay,”  Sound apologized, collapsing  onto the bench. “I’ll  watch and keep  track of
anyone that comes or goes. . . . Just remember, I’ve got an appointment at 11:00.”

Greg struggled to keep up with Nurse as she  scurried down Chandler Street. The open blisters on his
skin scraped against his pants and shirt, a  burning, stinging pain, like someone pouring sand in an
open wound. “What’s the hurry . . .” he huffed, “and where’re we going?”

“Keller’s kitchen. Stops servin’ at eight.” She  plowed along, paying no mind to his painful
gait.

Stephanie, in  stark contrast  to her  husband’s gloom, could  be heard  singing lullabies  in the
bathroom.  Mitch stared  distantly at  the unopened  credit application  on the  kitchen table.  His
fingers drummed at  its battered surface. Where was his  car? The bitter injustice of it  all ate at
his thoughts  in the same way  greedy alligators feed on  a fresh carcass. Bino  . . . he  hated the
lowlife–longed to  punish him.  A rat, a  street-smart gambler educated  by life’s  hard knocks.
These same traits, in fact, are what made him an even more feared opponent. And Vinnie

. . . he’d gladly crush his skull. Mitch’s spiteful mind reeled in thought. At least things were
starting to make  a little sense, like the fact  that Vinnie had made a special  effort to scope out
the GTO before ordering his thief to steal it.

His mind  returned to  the lanky  gas-station chain-smoker.  He’d mentioned  the night  before how
he’d once  been an honest gambler,  and that his boss  lent money. The likely  conclusion was that
Bino was stuck paying off  a debt or two. Janice had in part confirmed  the theory by explaining how
he made it a point to ensure that the property he hawked was never hot.

The thought  of two  precious unborn children  soon to  be in his  home finally  squelched Mitch’s
nagging desires for revenge.  He stopped his finger-drumming and rested his heavy  brow in his hand.
It was  time to tell  Stephanie about the  car–but not until  they finished shopping.  He wasn’t
about to completely ruin her day, too.

“I’m  ready,” Stephanie  announced, coming  from the  bathroom. She  picked up  her purse  and
paycheck from the counter. “We need to stop at  the bank.” She looked down at the application in
Mitch’s hand.  “Oh, that reminds  me. The credit  card company called  just after you  left last
night. They approved your card. They just needed to verify your 102 KEN MERRELL

social security number and mother’s maiden name.”

An alarm went off in Mitch’s head. He hadn’t applied for a new card.

“Which company was it?”

“MasterCard, I think. . . . Is everything alright?”

Managing to keep his fury in check, Mitch nodded. “Yeah,” he exhaled.

“Let’s go get those clothes.”

He pulled the  little Ford from the  garage, climbed from the  car and helped the  garage door down.
Then they set off.

Stephanie gazed out onto the lazy Saturday  morning streets. “I’ve been thinking about names for
the babies. Do  you want to hear them?” She  pulled the baby-name book from her  purse. Names. . .
Mitch tried to join her in her excitment, but it was all in vain. The only name that kept ringing in
his ears was that of Vincent Domenico.

The smell of blood was no stranger to Eddie. Now, the smell of blood–his own blood–together with
pain, stirred him into  consciousness. He concentrated on lifting his puffy  eyelids. His right arm,
pinned beneath him. Every part of him was stiff  and sore. He was also suffering severe cramps, much
like those he’d experienced  five decades earlier when his appendix  exploded during the miserable
third round of a division  title fight. His trainer had brushed off the  pain as food poisoning, and
insisted that he finish the bout.

Several toes felt oddly  out of place. Wiggling them proved futile, the  joints seemingly fused. The
shooting pains in his shattered legs were like  red-hot javelins that pierced the old man’s knees,
thighs, and back. Gliding a hand up his twisted  spine, he found that he’d been speared by a shard
of wood from the splintered landing.

When Eddie raised  his left arm, he discovered that  the entire right side of his  body was cold and
clammy, from where he’d felt the pinch before he fell. Recollection of his predicament was finally
sinking in. Missing in action  for going on twelve hours, he’d lay unconscious  from a blow to the
head  and the  effects of  the spider  venom–though minute–still  ounce for  ounce15 times  more
powerful than that  of a rattlesnake’s. The grizzled  fighter labored to pry his  other arm loose.
His shallow breaths gave way  to a nauseous wave of pressure building up  in his stomach. He focused
on breathing, but the nausea won out. A bilious  flow inched up into his paralyzed voice box. It was
futile to arrest  the explosion. The warm river  gushed down the front of  his sweat-soaked t-shirt,
joining with the

THE IDENTITY CHECK

103

puddle of blood on the concrete floor.

When the heaves and subsequent dry heaves had  subsided, he struggled to lean forward, but fell back
from the stabbing pain  in his kidneys. Eddie let his head loll  sideways. He’d never imagined his
final round  would end like this:  dying and disfigured, trapped  at the bottom of  a laundry chute,
knocked cold by a black widow spider.

Cracked wheat  cereal and oatmeal  boiled in big  silver pots, a  worker hustling about  keeping the
table filled with food, donning oven mitts, she removed one of the steaming bowls and rushed out the
door. Oven-like, the only thing  in the kitchen that was cold was the milk  and orange juice. At the
back of an adjoining gymnasium, the round, smiling face of a short man in his early fifties could be
seen sticking up between two kettles. A wide band of shiny forehead extended up and over between his
ears, which were bordered by short brown hair. His scalp practically glowed from the overhead lights
that reflected down on it.  Several dozen men were lined up at one side of  a table. Calling each by
name, this jolly elf slung the thick goo into bowls using giant spoons.

Reverend Bart Keller had been a plumber until  age 45. He’d inherited his father’s hair line and
business at 40, but after five miserable  years of managing employees, fighting unions, overseeing a
fleet of vans, and  calling upon hundreds of demanding contractors and  homeowners, he’d sold out,
kit and pipe-threaders, to one of his competitors at  50 cents on the dollar. Even so, a healthy wad
of almost  a million dollars  would go a  long ways.  The very next  day he’d bought  the run-down
church building on Stewart.  He still claimed, after seven years, it was  the best thing he’d ever
done. He was paid half-a-million up front, most of  which went to buying and fixing up the building.
The balance, disbursed in tax free increments, was  paid in charitable donations to the shelter over
the next several years. This money, however, was now nearly exhausted.

He and his wife Renae  lived in two rooms at the back of the building.  They ate their meals in with
their guests–his “friends”  and “children,” he called  them. The couple was  never able to
bear children of their own.  Nurse jostled Greg into line and cupped her  crippled hand to her mouth
to speak above the  roar of vagrants. “That’s reverend ‘hind the  pot,” she yelled. “Might
be good if’n you had a word with him. Get whatever’s weighin’ you down off your hump.”

“What make’s you think something’s bothering me?” Greg called 104 KEN MERRELL

back over the breakfast din.

“Just a feelin’.”

“No thanks.”

“We’ll see,” she muttered under her breath.

“What?”

“Nothin’. Get somethin’ to eat.”

The end  of the line slowly  crept up to  the large aluminum  pots, where Reverend Keller  turned to
Nurse. “Morning, Nurse. You too, Belle. Well, I see you brought a friend. . . . Oatmeal?”

Nurse nodded  and stuck her thumb  back over her shoulder.  “This here’s the fella  you sent the
orange juice for other day. We call him Sunny.”

“Morning, Sunny . . . oatmeal or cracked wheat?”

Greg  considered  the  options.  He’d  never  cared for  hot  cereal–never  even  tried  cracked
wheat–but his stomach was caterwauling to be filled.

“I’ll try the wheat.”

“Good choice; my personal favorite.” The corners  of Reverend Keller’s mouth turned up, like a
friendly elf,  ever so slightly, exposing  the dimples in his  cheeks. His eyes, soft  and inviting,
seemed to look past Greg’s sunburned exterior, beyond the whiskers and greasy hair, into his soul.
“Nothing like a  bowl of God’s whole grain to  start a bright new day.” The  spoon dipped into
what was left of the mush and returned with a heaping portion.

“A little brown sugar and milk on that, you’ll think you’re in heaven.”

Following Nurse, Greg moved quickly to the low table nearby, sprinkled out a spoonful of brown sugar
and picked up a paper cup of milk. He and Nurse  then took seats at a table set off from the others.
The last few stragglers that had wandered in behind Greg filled their bowls and found seats.

“Got enough chow for a few to have seconds if you want,” the reverend hollered.

Nurse shoved a  heaping spoonful of oatmeal in her  mouth and squirmed in her seat,  looking out the
corner of her  eye. “I know, I know,” she  whispered, speaking from the side of  her mouth. “I
seen him already.”

Greg stirred some milk into his cereal. “Who?”

“Belle’s just a worry wart, ‘s all.”

“Who’s she worried about?”

“Nothin’. Ain’t no  need nobody gettin’ riled  up.” Nurse’s eyes followed a  man who was
making his  way toward  the chow line.  The guy  was your  regular tramp, except  he wore  some nice
designer  slacks and  an expensive–though  dingy–shirt.  On his  feet  were a  pair of  scuffed,
name-brand

THE IDENTITY CHECK

105

shoes.

Greg craned  his neck to  see who she  was staring at, then  turned back to  take his first  bite of
cereal. Stopping short of putting it in his  mouth, he swivelled around, mouth agape, and cried out,
“He’s wearing my clothes!”

Reverend Keller shook the last remnant of oatmeal  in the fellow’s bowl, then dropped the spoon in
the  pan.  Nurse had  told  the  reverend  how she’d  found  Greg,  and  everyone knew  that  this
guy–fittingly, ‘Finders’ was his  street name–had cashed in an expensive  watch at the local
pawn shop. Greg rose from his chair and started toward the man. No contest–embroidered initials on
the shirt sleeves was easily enough to condemn the clothes thief.

Sensing trouble, his short legs chugging like the  little red train that could, Reverend Keller, the
driving force of  a steam engine behind him,  rounded the table to intercede.  “Sunny,” he said,
extending  his stout  arm  over Greg’s  shoulder  and turning  him on  his  heels. “How’s  the
wheat?”

“I, I. . .” Greg stuttered as he pointed in Finders direction.

“I’ve got something you  might be looking for,” the reverend said.  He lifted the mush-specked
apron from his spherical belly and leaned sideways to  allow his hand to fit into his pocket. Easing
Greg down into a chair, he extracted something and pulled up a chair of his own. From his seat, Greg
couldn’t help but give the  shoes on Finder’s feet a passing glance as the  man sat back down at
his table.  Resisting the  arm that yet  rested on his  shoulder, he  started to say,  “But he’s
wearing . . .”

“. . . previously owned clothes, just like you  and me.” The reverend laid a finger to his lips.
Greg ran his  hand through his too-long  hair to pull it from  his eyes. He’d been  two months now
without a haircut, a week without a bath. Finally he looked down at what Reverend Keller had resting
in his palm. A gold  Rolex. Keller spoke quietly. “Tell me the inscription  on the back and it’s
yours.”

Greg slumped in  embarrassment. It had been a birthday  gift from his wife. They were  still in love
then, ten  years ago. Crazy about  each other, in  fact. Linda had  skimped and saved, taken  on odd
sewing jobs, baby sat neighbor kids and kids from their church to save enough money to buy it. Those
days were difficult–and wonderful  at the same time. No money, no worries.  Still in college, came
and went as  they pleased. Long hours of  work and a tiny  two-room apartment and a new  baby on the
way–pure  heaven. “To  G.H., forever  yours. With  love, L.H.”  Greg mumbled.  Reverend Keller
lowered his head to catch Greg’s eye. “I didn’t quite 106 KEN MERRELL

hear that last part.”

Greg met the gaze  of the man sitting next to  him, looked deep into those caring  brown eyes at his
own shabby reflection. “To G.H., forever yours,” he repeated more loudly. “ With love, L.H.”

“I thought so.” The reverend handed over the watch.

“Thought what?”

“You know–you’ve just forgotten. . . .” Nurse peered over, bits of oatmeal at the corners of
her mouth, and smiled. Greg almost smiled back.

“So, Sunny, what do you do for a living?” the reverend asked, his voice taking on a more serious
tone.

“Uh, computers. . . . I was a computer software and programming executive.”

“Maybe you can return the favor. I’ve got a computer giving me trouble.”

Greg slipped the watch on over the bright red ring on his sunburned wrist. In corresponding fashion,
he  subconsciously twisted  at  the  tight wedding  band  on  his finger.  It,  too,  had a  similar
inscription, though  he hadn’t read  it for years.  The extra weight he’d  put on had  locked it
tight–just not tight enough  to keep a marriage together. “I’ll be glad  to take a look,” he
finally said.

“Great. Now  finish your wheat  before it gets  cold.” He  wiped his hands  on the front  of his
apron. “See you in ten minutes.”

Nurse swept  her mouth with the  front of her  hand and wiped it  on her dress. “Told  you,” she
said. “Reverend’s got  a gift. Says he gets help  from higher up. Can look right  into yer heart
and see what makes ya’

tick.  ‘Fore  ya’  know  what  hit   ya’,  you’ll  be  ‘fessin’  up  an’  lightenin’
‘nother’s load.”  Nurse stood and gulped  the last of her  milk. “I’ll meet ya’  back at
Eddie’s. Meantime, I best see if Smitty found Cap’n.”

The makeshift cafeteria was nearly empty now. Only  Greg remained sitting; a few others chatted near
the exit.  All at once, a  huge man, legs like  pillars and a huge  droopy sack of wheat  for a gut,
bolted from the  kitchen carrying a dirty  ladle. “You!” he thundered, striding  up and pointing
his weapon in  Greg’s face. Taken aback, Greg  stayed put, not daring to move.  Satisfied with the
frightened man’s response, the  whiteaproned man, having spied the others  ducking for cover, gave
chase.

“You and you  and you,” he pointed, ordering the  last three people out the door  to follow him.
Pointing once more at Greg, he barked, “You,

THE IDENTITY CHECK

107

start on tables.”

Greg, a  panicked look on  his face, looked  to Reverend Keller for  help. The reverend  dropped his
apron on the table and said, “He’ll be helping me today, Cook.”

The  big man–known  by all  simply as  “Cook”–then turned  his wrathful  stare on  the other
unlucky three. “You,” he pointed to a thin woman,

“start on the tables. You,” he pointed at another wide-eyed patron,

“wipe down and mop the kitchen. . . . You, you sweep the hall. . . .”

With that, he turned and stomped back  into the kitchen. Reverend Keller shrugged apologetically and
looked at Greg. “He’s harmless. His friendly tail’s  a whole lot worse than his bark. A little
intimidating, is all, until you get to know him.”

Greg glanced in the direction of the kitchen,  where the big drillsergeant cook could still be heard
giving orders. “If you say so.”

“He keeps up his guard to protect himself–hides  his feelings. Not unlike the rest of us.” The
reverend guided  Greg into a side  office, piled high with  papers. Even with the  door closed, Greg
could  still plainly  hear Cook’s  brusque voice.  What  kind of  feelings could  he behiding?  he
thought.

Apparently Reverend Keller felt  the need to explain what had just happened.  “Cook served in Nam.
All I know is not a single one of his friends came back with him.” Then he turned his attention to
the misfiring  PC. “That’s  it,” he said,  referring to  a keyboard and  monitor on  the desk.
“The only thing I still own that tries my patience. Torments me, to be more accurate. Possessed by
some sort of cyber-demon. I’m afraid my own prayers and faith aren’t strong enough to fix it.”

The man’s good  humor brought a smile to  Greg’s lips. He flipped the switch.  “I don’t know
anybody that prays for their computer. You ever have anybody look at it?”

“Nope, just figured I wasn’t praying hard enough.”

Greg wagged his head. Was this guy serious? Did he really thinkprayers could fix it? “What does it
do?”

“Dies. I’ll be right  in the middle of whatever and the damn  thing dies. Oops–don’t usually
take to cursing. It’s just this machine, and a few of my old habits. Used to be a plumber. Nothing
quite like  laying under a sink  full of dirty  water while it drips  on your face. Or  messing with
somebody else’s used toilet paper. Or getting your arm  stuck up a toilet while trying to pull out
a rubber duck. I worked in sewer water, 108 KEN MERRELL

see? Couldn’t help but get a little on me now and then. The cursing was a daily thing–an outward
manifestation of my inner frustrations, being stuck in  my fathers business, and all. The worst part
was that my  dad died before I realized  why we didn’t get  along as good as we  should have. Even
sadder, after  he died and  I told my  mother, she told me  he only kept  the business for  me. That
really took the cake. . . . How about you? Have a family?”

Greg nodded as he typed  in his first command. “Two children, a boy and a  girl. My son, Devin, is
10; Larine’s eight.”

“See them often?”

“It’s been over three weeks.”

“I’ll bet you miss them.”

Greg swallowed hard and typed in several more commands. “It’s my own fault.”

“I know what  you mean. I sometimes  wonder if I should’ve had  someone come and take  a look at
this computer sooner. . . .” The reverend’s broad smile narrowed. “Your wife?”

“Linda. . . she filed for divorce more than a month ago.”

“Sorry to hear that. . . . You know, I’ll bet if I’d had had some help on this blasted machine
when it first started giving me problems, it wouldn’t have driven me to swearing.”

Greg scanned through the various startup commands,  bios and autoexec.bat files, wondering where the
strange conversation  was going. “  I don’t see  anything wrong. When  does it usually  give you
trouble?”

“Sometimes it just didn’t respond when I moved  the mouse.” He leaned across the desk and gave
the mouse a shake. “The first time I noticed a  real problem was when I was writing a love note to
my wife. I had it half finished and got sidetracked.  When I came back, the machine was frozen up. I
never did get back to finishing my note.”

Greg rifled through the computer’s sleep program, its temp files, the recycle bin, and every other
place  he could  think to  look. “It  could be  in the  hard drive.  I just  can’t see  anything
wrong.”

“Maybe if you open up the word processor and type awhile. That’s when it usually gives me grief.
I’ll go help  with the dishes.” Reverend Keller  pulled away from the desk and  left the office.
Taking the suggestion to heart, Greg opened the program and, out of habit, typed in a simple nursery
rhyme he‘d written. As a programmer, he’d used it many times over as test text.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

109

My little Devin came down from heaven.

An angel child from God.

To fill  my heart, make  joy in part.  . . He paused.  He couldn’t recall  the rest of  the rhyme.
Rolling to the side, he peered out the office door. The reverend was still in the kitchen. He leaned
back in the chair and  snapped the watch from his wrist to read the inscription  on the back. He ran
his  thumb over  the indented  letters, words  once so  lovingly etched  that now  had given  way to
mistrust and  malice. The cloudy  reflection staring back  was no longer  the same man  those tender
words had been meant for.

Shaking his head  in despair, Greg lay the watch  on the table, placed his fingers  on the keyboard,
and began to type.

My dearest Linda,

It’s the  silliest thing. I’m  sitting at a  reverend’s office desk  at a soupkitchen  for the
homeless. After somehow returning to me the stolenwatch you gave me years ago, the reverend asked me
if I could  find outwhat is wrong with his  computer. You will probably never see  this let-ter, nor
will anyone  else, but he says  the machine only gives  him troublewhen he’s typing.  Therefore, I
type.

A breath of air slowly escaped Greg’s lips. He’d  never apologized to her, not the way he should
have. The pain  she’d bottled up had slipped  from her lips in the form  of angry words–deserved
reproof for his deception.

Oh, Linda, I was a fool. My selfishness and stupidity cost me every-thing I own, nearly including my
life, which I would gladly give tohave you back.

Greg daubed  at his eyes and  leaned to see if  anyone was watching before  continuing his heartfelt
missive.

If I could have the wish  of my heart, I’d turn back the hands of timeto  the day you gave me this
beautiful watch. I’d  start anew, loving you,being  sensitive to your needs,  guarding your tender
feelings, neverallowing the ugly  sands of deceit to filter into the  hourglass of yourheart, living
our lives to  the fullest. I’d return to a  time when poverty brought us together,  when the carwe
drove was only a  means of transportation rather than a symbol ofmy  achievements. My most treasured
possessions are and always havebeen you and our family, not  things. But I let them get in the way .
. .

“So, did you find the problem, or do I need to pray harder than 110 KEN MERRELL

ever?”

Greg recoiled at the sound of the reverend’s voice. He’d been too caught up in thought.

Embarrassed by the private words  lit up on the screen, he ran the cursor  up, hit delete, and wiped
at his  cheek. Reverend  Keller could  read between  the lines of  human emotion;  his years  in the
ministry had taught  him well to read  people, and their feelings.  The man sitting at  his desk was
hurting. He turned his back and gently eased the door shut. When the few critical seconds had passed
in silence, he spoke.

“I’ve met a  lot of people that live  on the street. They  come here to get a  decent meal. Most
have no other place to go. . . . Sunny, when you’re ready to talk, I’m here to listen.”

Greg pushed  back, stood,  and scooted the  chair back under  the desk.  He motioned to  the humming
computer. “There’s nothing wrong with it, is there?”

The reverend shook his head. “But if there was, I’d need help to fix it. Hope, prayers, wishing,
they wouldn’t be enough.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

111

FIFTEEN

BY TEN THIRTY GREG HAD returned to the front  of the biomedical center and relieved Sound from duty.
Sitting on  the bench,  he thought  of Reverend  Keller and the  way he  had spoken  in such  an odd
parable. The words had caused Greg deep reflection ever  since. How could he hope to have his family
and life  back without putting  forth any real  effort? The notion of  fixing a computer  problem by
prayer alone was ridiculous.  And prayer, as powerful as it may be,  wasn’t the only thing lacking
in Greg’s life, by far. He needed to do something, work it out. Yet it all seemed so overwhelming.

During his watch, Greg kept a close look-out on the gym down the street. Around noon, Clint arrived,
and opened  the door to  let in a  few die-hard weightlifters. The  staff in the  basement weren’t
expected to  return until  Monday morning,  and the  metal door  leading downstairs  was dead-bolted
tight.

Shortly after, Cap’n arrived, introducing himself with  a fierce handshake and deep voice. Despite
the climbing temperature, he wore an ill  fit Desert Storm military-issue coat with captain’s bars
sown  to  each  shoulder. Sweat  ran  profusely  down  the  big  black  man’s face  and  over  his
skunk-striped beard, dripping like rain on the front of his soaked camouflaged shirt.

Greg  discretely wiped  the  sweaty  handshake on  his  “previouslyowned”  pants and  introduced
himself.

“So,  you’re Sunny.  Nice to  meet  you!” Cap’n  boomed. Then  he  pulled a  strap from  his
shoulder, lifted  a two  and a half-gallon  cooler above his  mouth, tilted  back his wide  head and
gulped the splashing water down his hollow throat. Half of it leaked from the corners of the man’s
mouth and onto his  belly. “Hotter n’ hadies today, ain’t it,” he  said, after drinking what
seemed like an  entire lake-full. Greg agreed with  a curious smile. All at once,  Cap’n let loose
with an “Oh!” Pulling the strap back over his shoulder, he dragged a well-112 KEN MERRELL

used plastic cup from his jacket pocket and lowered it to the spout, filling it to the brim.

“Forgive my rudeness . . . . Should’a served you first.”

Greg took the cup and peered over its edge.  Nothing swimming inside–so he pressed it to his lips.
The ice-cold water felt good on his parched tongue. “Thanks,” he said, returning the cup.

“Think nothin’ of it. Nurse says you need to get some rest now.”

Cap’n glanced over  at the building, looked up  and down the street, then bent  closer to Greg’s
ear. “That’s a  hint that your watch is  over ‘til morning.” His thick lips  twitched and he
spoke out the side of his mouth.

“Glad to have you in the unit. Good ‘cruits are hard to come by these days.”

The sound of the red Ferrari turned both men’s heads in the direction of the sports car pulling up
in front  of the gym. Vinnie  revved the engine  before shutting it  off, climbing from the  car and
circling onto  the curb. The  picture of cool,  he was dressed in  a pair of  casual, almond-colored
slacks  and a  collared, two-tone,  short-sleeved  shirt. The  only  evidence that  he wasn’t  the
ultra-smooth customer he imagined himself to be was the splotchy, purplish bruise at the base of his
chin. With a  beep and a flash  of the lights, Vinnie dropped  the keys in his  pocket, adjusted his
expensive sunglasses in the reflection of the tinted window, and disappeared inside Eddie’s place.

Greg took two steps toward the gym. “I think I’ll go take a look around inside.”

The rattle of  an ice-filled cooler, the  slap of boots on  concrete, and the swish  of heavy fabric
behind him, and Cap’n had cut off Greg’s  path. “Not without orders, Private.” His voice was
stern. Greg  looked up in  the scowling face  of the giant man.  “Excuse me, sir,”  he murmured.
“I’d like to volunteer for the reconnaissance mission.”

Cap’n’s nod  was hardly noticeable,  “Report back  immediately upon completion.”  He stepped
aside and pointed the way.  The half-block trek past the alley to the  gym took scarcely 30 seconds.
Greg stopped and nonchalantly  leaned up against the wall, just inches away  from the partially open
door. The smell of swamp cooler and locker room  blew past him through the narrow crack. Through the
wire-encased  glass, Greg  could see  the large  ebony-skinned trainer,  bent over  a bench-pressing
weightlifter. Then, from around the alley

THE IDENTITY CHECK

113

corner came  racing two  pre-teen boys, almost  knocking Greg  down. The lead  boy jostled  past and
through the doorway ahead of the other.

“Hey, Ty,” he said boldly, the moment he burst into the weight room,

“where’s Pops?”

The second boy waited for Greg to step aside, and strolled in, with Greg close on his heels.

Inside the  near-empty gym, Ty  looked up from  spotting a heavy  load of weights.  “Don’t know,
Luke. Haven’t seen him all morning. Go see if he’s still asleep.”

Luke raced down the darkened corridor to the farthest door and banged on it with his fist. Receiving
no response, he went to the end of the hall and shoved open the outside metal door to see if the old
pickup  sat in  its usual  spot. Returning  to  the studio  door, he  yelled, “Hey,  Pops, you  in
there?” No answer. He banged again, then turned the knob to peek inside.

A paltry,  smoked-glass window  above a narrow  sink threw a  faint, gray  tinge on the  room. Small
cupboards, painted a brownish-yellow color, lined the wall  on each side. A shabby fridge sat to one
side. An  unkempt single  bed filled  the opposite wall,  shoved up  against an  antique nightstand,
cluttered with  books. Scores of  books on the  floor, piled high, lined  the somber walls.  The old
man’s apartment  wasn’t much better  than the  homeless shelter where  he and his  mother lived.
Faded and yellowing, dozens of black-and-white photos in dusty, outdated frames blanketed the walls.
Luke stepped close and stared at one of the  pictures, where a young champion hoisted above his head
in one hand a glittering trophy; in the other, he clutched a title belt with its gaudy buckle facing
the camera. A wide smile and confident eyes made the young fighter look rather cocky. The same young
man stood in other photos. In some he was arm  in arm with a beautiful young woman; in others he had
his arm around a child. Some of the photos  were of an older man with a curled mustache–definitely
Eddie–together with a  handsome young boy about the  same age as Luke, who likewise  held a trophy
and a belt, and gave off a grin as wide as the crescent trim on the belt’s buckle.

“He there?” Luke heard Ty yell from the weight room up front. Luke cast his eyes around the room
one more time. Then he  sauntered back into the hall and back to  the mirrored weight room. “Nope,
can’t find him nowhere.”

114 KEN MERRELL

Out by the gym’s entrance, Greg lingered by  the door. His casual preoccupation with the building,
its metal  door and alarm  system, drew the  attention of the  only man who  would care, and  he was
becoming more irritated by the minute.

“What do you need?” Ty finally demanded, confronting the shabby, bothersome man, hands on hips.

“Just looking for Eddie. Is he in?”

“Haven’t seen him all morning. Try back later.” Enough said, Ty, with Luke shadowing him, went
back to spotting the heavy load suspended over  the chest of his client. “Just two more–come on,
push!”

In spite of his not being all that welcome,  Greg stayed put. Luke, curious and a little bored, gave
Greg the once over, then  turned and bounded up the stairs. At the top of  the balcony, he paused at
Clint’s office  before crouching on his  hands and knees. He’d  sneaked past the office  once or
twice before to check out  the antique equipment in the storage room down  the hall, and wondered if
Eddie might be there.

“He hasn’t been here all morning,” Clint’s voice blared from beneath the closed door.

“I want the old codger dead.” Luke didn’t recognize the other voice.

“He’s an old man.  If he wanted to go to the  cops he’d have gone months ago. .  . . Back off;
I’ll find him. He’s got no place else to go.”

Meanwhile, Greg,  still at  his post  by the  front door, saw  a tattered  woman approaching  on the
sidewalk outside, with two black eyes, a cut lip and multiple bruises on her skinny arms. For such a
young  woman she’d  already lived  a hard  life. She  stopped at  the door  and took  hold of  its
wrought-iron handle.  Greg moved to help  with the heavy,  rusty-hinged door. The woman  lowered her
eyes  and offered  thanks,  before sheepishly  stepping  around  him. She  glanced  about the  room,
seemingly embarrassed by the  nearly naked bodies of the musclebound men who  grunted and preened in
front of the  mirrors. Then she spied the  second boy who had  come in with Luke–a boy  who bore a
striking resemblance to her. Scowling, she marched up and quietly scolded him for leaving her so far
behind. The  boy apologized,  explaining he’d  only wanted  to talk  with Eddie.  The woman  put a
knuckle to her forehead and pressed, the clear sign of a headache. Pulling at her son’s shirt, she
told him they’d come back another time. Greg could  tell by the look in the kid’s face he wanted
to argue, but reluctantly obeyed. Together they trudged out the door.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

115

Greg followed after  them. As he did,  he thought of his  own son, together with  the questions from
Wyatt, the young  man from the restroom. No, he’d  never beaten his wife or son.  And now, yes, he
missed them terribly–and wondered if they’d ever take him back.

After five different stores, six new outfits, an  almost-empty wallet and one aching back, Mitch was
ready to call  it quits. His ten-buck wristwatch  read three o’clock. The time  had dragged along.
He’d never been one  for shopping, but knew how much Stephanie enjoyed  it. With his hands clasped
behind his head, he leaned back in the plush chair outside the dressing room, tapped his foot up and
down, and watched Stephanie’s feet and ankles under the dressing room door.

“We need to do this more often, Stef,” he called out under the opening. “I never knew pregnant
women could be so sexy.”

Stephanie peeked over  the top of the  door. She pressed a  finger to her lips.  “Shhh!” She was
blushing. A  very pregnant woman  nearby, sorting through  a rack of tops,  looked up with  a smile.
Clearly she’d overheard the compliment.

“Let ‘em look. My beautiful wife’s pregnant with twins,” he announced in a semi-loud voice.

“Mitchell Wilson, I mean it! I’ll be too embarrassed to come out.”

Mitch grinned from ear  to ear and raised his eyebrows in a  teasing gesture. When Stephanie finally
did emerge, the  woman at the rack inched over  to ask about the twins. By  an unlikely coincidence,
she too was expecting a double delivery.

Mitch let out a sigh  as the two women, instant soul mates, launched in on  what he could tell would
be a long discussion, comparing their pregnancies. Now look what he’d done–he and his big mouth.
He settled  back in the chair.  It’d be at least  another fifteen minutes. Luke  prowled about the
high-ceilinged storage room, too afraid to venture past Clint’s office. He’d previously been the
victim of the temperamental man’s stern lectures,  and wasn’t about to get caught snooping where
he didn’t belong–especially after hearing a  conversation that included the words “cops” and
“killing.”

He crept to  the window. Out in  the alleyway he saw his  new friend walking away  with his battered
mother. Luke jumped quietly up and down in an  attempt to catch their attention. In the process, his
foot 116 KEN MERRELL

knocked a single pipe off a nearby box, which,  in turn, rolled across the floor and bumped the base
of a weight  bar leaning against the window  sill. As the top  of the bar pitched in  a sweeping arc
across the wall, it fell  onto a pile of metal weights stacked precariously  in the corner. To Luke,
gazing on  in horror, the slow-motion  scene seemed to  go on forever,  though it lasted only  a few
seconds.

The falling  weights spilled and  clattered onto  the floor, chiming  and shaking like  church bells
pealing during  a summer  thunderstorm. Then  the room fell  silent. Luke  hunkered low  and scooted
across the floor, wishing a  bolt of lightning would strike him dead before the  two men in the next
room came and found him cowering against the far wall.

Deep in the  dank recesses of the building,  Eddie stirred from his semi-conscious sleep.  A roll of
distant thunder echoed down  the laundry chute, reminding him of his  desperate situation. His pulse
had slowed to  a feeble beat. Drops of  perspiration streamed from every pore.  Each feverish tremor
shot a dagger of pain through his punctured back. Exerting his last bit of energy, he groped through
the rubble strewn over and around his shattered legs. At last he was able to pull a short board from
the debris. Raising it with his good arm, and  with as little movement as possible, he began tapping
the wall in a rhythmic S.O.S. Meanwhile, several  stories above, Luke’s young chest felt heavy and
his stomach  churned with fear. Footsteps  sounded outside the door  to the storage room.  It opened
cautiously, and in walked Clint, Vinnie right behind. “The old man has my piece,” Vinnie warned.

“He won’t shoot  us. He’s a fighter, but he  doesn’t have a mean bone in  his body,” Clint
assured. “Look, it’s only a pile of weights. He  must have knocked them loose when he jumped out
the window last night.”

“Don’t matter.  I’m sendin’ some  people to move  the operation tonight.  You tell me  if he
shows.”

“Vinnie, he’s an old man,” Clint pleaded.

“You tell me–or I’ll do you, too.” Vinnie  raised his trigger finger to deal his underling a
threatening poke.

With lightning-fast reflexes, Clint  caught Vinnie by the arm, raised the pointed  finger to his own
lips, and  blew, as  if puffing  away smoke  from the  tip of  a gun.  “Do what?”  Clint’s jaw
tightened. “Kill everyone that doesn’t agree? This is my town now. Get that straight, Vinnie.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

117

I know more hard  cases here than you ever even  met back in Jersey–so does the  old man. You kill
him or me, and they find out, you’ll never make it out of town alive.”

Vinnie yanked his arm free. “He’s your responsibility! They come lookin’

for me, you’re dead. . . .”

Still glaring warily at one another, both men stalked out the door and pulled it closed behind them.
Luke–hardly breathing, petrified  yet still alive, and still  hugging the wall on the  far side of
the room–wished he hadn’t heard what he’d just heard. He’d give anything to be far away just
then, away from the gym, away from it all.  Easing himself to his feet, he wondered what the tapping
sound was that seemed to vibrate up through the walls.

Mitch and  Stephanie started for  home. Beaming with  joy at her selections,  she patted him  on the
thigh. “You were a good sport to come today.”

“My pleasure. What do you say we go see Grandpa. We haven’t even told him about our babies.”

“Great. I was thinking the same thing. If we look hungry enough, maybe he’ll make us some of his
‘junkyard dog stew’ for supper.”

Mitch smiled,  remembering Stephanie’s first visit  to the junkyard.  For a long time  he’d been
careful to keep her away, afraid the upperclass girl  would find out where he came from and blow him
off, a scared  cat running from the rowdy junkyard  dog. She’d asked dozens of times  to meet this
infamous grandpa of  his. Ashamed more of where he  lived than of the grouchy old  man, he’d asked
Grandpa several  times to  come to  a restaurant  and meet  her. Grandpa  had always  refused. “If
she’s scared off see’n who you are and who I am,” he’d say,

“she ain’t worth a pile a dog crap anyway.”

The night she finally met  the cantankerous old fellow was a near disaster.  In a weak moment, Mitch
had promised Stephanie they’d  swing by and meet him after a movie.  Even though he’d had second
thoughts  later  that  night,  she’d  held  him  to his  promise.  When  they  pulled  up  to  the
single-bedroom trailer,  parked on blocks  and situated behind  the run-down service  station, Mitch
studied her  face. She was  aware of his  trepidation and the embarrassment  he might feel,  and had
carefully weighed her words. “It  can’t be as bad as you make it out  to be.” Mitch was afraid
that, indeed, it was. 118 KEN MERRELL

He slithered  through the  doorway first,  hoping to shield  his steady  girl from  any particularly
unseemly spectacle. But it was not to be. Grandpa  was seated on his easy chair, his feet propped up
on a greasy footrest. Before he had seen Stephanie, he blurted out, “Hell’s bells, boy, you home
so early? What’s ‘a matter, had a spat with the royalty?”

He’d always resented  his son for being  ashamed of where he  came from, and now  his grandson was
doing the  same thing. Somehow  he’d always assumed  he could blame  the problem on  their friends
rather than his own flesh and blood.

“No . . . Pa,” Mitch had stammered, “I–I brought her to meet you.”

The old man  was so embarrassed by  his statement, he couldn’t even  apologize. Stephanie, sensing
the  silent arrows  of anger  radiating  between the  men,  politely introduced  herself. She  tried
breaking the  tension by inquiring  what smelled so  good. “Stew,” the  old man had  said, still
stunned by the exchange. Then  he’d wiggled the toothpick in his teeth and  fled the room to fetch
them both a bowl of the homemade concoction.

Stephanie found the  stew to be delicious, that is  until Mitch went into the other  room to put the
empty bowls  in the sink. Again  trying to be polite,  Stephanie had remarked, “The  stew was very
good,” and then asked, “What kind of meat did you use?”

“Junkyard dog,” Grandpa had exclaimed in his typically  gruff way. Knowing he was trying to push
her buttons, Stephanie had responded,

“Well, sir, that’s the best damn junkyard dog I ever ate!”

The gruff response was  just what the old man needed to put  away his prejudice. Boisterous laughter
met Mitch  upon his return. Stephanie’s  howls were passionate and  genuine; Grandpa’s crotchety
old face was glowing. Before long, they were all laughing at Grandpa’s stories about Mitch when he
was little. Some  of the tales were  rather mortifying–to Mitch, at least:  others were relatively
tame. One  story told how  the stew’s name  originated. When Mitch  was three, one  of Grandpa’s
guard dogs he  kept on the lot had  disappeared. The old hound–named Butch,  as Grandpa remembered
it–had probably gone out to a far corner of the yard, laid down and died. But little Mitch was too
smart for  that. Several times  he’d been out  hunting with Grandpa, and  he knew where  meat came
from: it came from animals. So, while studying the  stew they were eating that night, he was sure it
was from that old missing dog. Needless to say, the “junkyard dog stew ” label

THE IDENTITY CHECK

119

stuck.

At the end of that first visit, Grandpa had given  Mitch a slap on the back and said, “Mighty fine
woman, boy. You hang on to her–she just might help you get outta this old junkyard.”

Now, years later, they were once more on their way to see him. Mitch turned to his bride and put his
hand on her thigh. “Mighty fine woman,” he chuckled.

Luke waited until he was sure Clint had left  the building and the Ferrari had rumbled from the curb
before making his way back downstairs. According to Clint’s conversation, Eddie had jumped out the
window. Nurse’ll know where he is, thought the boy as he raced to the alley.

Eddie stopped  tapping and drifted back  into a mind-numbing stupor.  Trying to escape the  pain, he
once again  drifted into the past–to  better days, to his  beautiful bride sitting in  the rocking
chair in front  of a fireplace, her  curly hair flowing down her  bosom to where she  held their new
baby girl, nursing at her mother’s breast.

“You can do it,” were some of the last words she ever said to him.

“It doesn’t  matter how bad they  try to scare you.  . . . You  do your best to  bring that belt
home, but, win or  lose, make sure you come home with your  integrity intact.” Afterwards, she had
given him a tender  kiss and a soft pat on  the rear. He’d turned to leave,  then wheeled back and
bent down  to kiss the velvety  forehead of their newborn.  This calming vision faded,  and his mind
jumped ahead to one of his worst days, to the  day when his appendix had burst. He’d won the title
that day, over sixty years earlier. He’d refused to take a fall, ignoring the threats of a Chicago
crime boss  not willing to  lose a bet.  The police had met  him in the  locker room after  the win,
solemn-faced,  heads lowered.  Two of  their  best officers,  veterans  who’d been  left to  guard
Eddie’s wife and  daughter, had taken the fall  for that title round. Somehow  the infant daughter
had survived.

“Nurse, you in there?” Luke hollered from near the power-box. Greg sat up from his restless nap.
The young voice seemed a faint echo of the night before.

“Nurse, it’s Luke–Eddie’s friend.”

Greg pulled back the carpet, peering squinty-eyed into the alley. 120 KEN MERRELL

“She’s not here.”

“Where is she?  Has she seen Pops? I been  lookin’ for him.” Luke knew of  Nurse and Eddie’s
long friendship, that Eddie had taken rolls of tape and other food and medical items to her over the
last few months. If Eddie was hurt by the fall, she’d know where he was.

“Isn’t he inside?”

Luke recognized Greg as the man from the doorway. “You one of Nurse’s friends?”

Greg inched from the concrete shelter. “She calls me Sunny. . . .”

An hour north of Vegas,  Mitch pulled the car off the freeway and down a  gravel road to a bridge. A
few blocks further, the  road deadended into a cluttered, seemingly  abandoned service station piled
high with wrecked  vehicles and car parts. Five  angry dogs–teeth bared, tails straight  up in the
air, yelps  piercing the wind–lit  out from the  open door of the  station. When they  reached the
little Ford,  they greeted  it in  their customary  way, viciously  attacking the  vehicle’s front
tires. Without hesitation,  Mitch stepped out and began  shouting out names like a roll  call to the
mass of teeth and fur. The untrained mob of  mongrel flesh turned from the tires like a frantic pack
of hungry wolves and made  for Mitch, who knelt to greet his furry friends.  Each dog, in turn, rank
and order, either turned belly-up for a good rubdown,  or jumped to lick the face of their youthful,
more spirited master. Stephanie remained behind closed doors as Mitch turned, the dogs trailing him,
barking excitedly,  and walked  inside and  closed the  station door.  A surly  voice came  from the
station. “Who in tarnation’s harassin’

my dogs?”

“The only man  who loves ‘em more than  you,” Mitch called out. There was  a chuckle, followed
by, “After  three weeks, you better  not be comin’ ‘round  here ‘less you brought  Stef with
you, boy.” A  tall, lean man with  bushy eyebrows, a two-day  growth of white whiskers  and a full
head of white hair emerged from the back room, wiping his rough, oily hands with a soiled rag.

“I’ll take her back,  if you’re going to be an ol’ grouch,”  Mitch retorted, spreading his
arms wide. The  men embraced. Mitch hugged  the old man tight,  despite the risk of  grease from his
coveralls. The old man unzipped the coveralls and struggled to pull them from

THE IDENTITY CHECK

121

his shoulders. “Gimme a hand. Don’t want to get ‘er dirty.”

With a growl from  their elderly master, the mongrels were ordered to  stay inside the station, away
from Mitch’s young bride  with her terrible fear of dogs–especially  large, savage ones. Grandpa
Wilson, old and  stiff from three-quarters-of-a-century’s hard work, limped  with a quickened pace
toward his  one-and-only favorite granddaughter-in-law. Stephanie  popped the lock and  climbed from
the car.

“Land sakes, you beautiful girl,” exclaimed Grandpa Wilson,  reaching out to her take her in his
arms. Stephanie noticed  his hug was a little  more tender than usual. “Been  thinkin’ about you
all week, wonderin’  when you’d drag this man  of yours up here  to see me. Even put  a pot o’
junkyard dog on this mornin’, hopin’ you’d come.”

“Grandpa, we missed you. How are you feeling?”

“For cryin’ out loud, we  don’t wanna talk about me. Tell me about  the little one.” One arm
still  wrapped around  her  shoulder, he  circled  the forefinger  of  his other  hand  in front  of
Stephanie’s not-yet-distended belly and escorted her toward the trailer. Stephanie flashed Mitch a
questioning glance  over her shoulder.  He shrugged and  wiped his hands  together as if  to cleanse
himself of all responsibility.

“How did you know I’m pregnant?” Stephanie asked.

“My stars, girl,  a man who can’t see that  glow hoverin’ over a woman as  beautiful and happy
about it as you, got  to be downright blind. Now, come take off your shoes.  Been doin’ a bit a’
readyin’ for the new arrival.”

The three of them climbed the wooden steps to  the trailer porch and slipped their shoes off outside
the door. Mitch looked on in amazement. Stephanie gasped, “It’s beautiful, Grandpa.”

The inside  of the home  had been completely  refurbished. New carpet, a  bright coat of  new paint,
brand-new furniture throughout. “Been twenty-two years since  we had a little one runnin’ around
the place.  Figured it was time  to fix ‘er up  for my first great-grandchild.  Don’t want ‘im
playing in the grease now, do we?”

Stephanie’s eyes began to tear up. “That’s so thoughtful. . . .”

“Glory be,  girl, you can’t be  goin’ off cryin’, now,  or you’ll make an  old man cry.”
Grandpa gently took Stephanie  by the hand. Mitch cleared his throat.  “You know, Grandpa, we’ve
got some doubly good news.” Struggling to contain his own emotions, he paused. 122 KEN MERRELL

This was a magical moment, one to remember. “We’re having twins–a boy and a girl.”

Grandpa threw up his hands. “Now you done it,” his voice quavered.

“. . . You . . . the four a’ you–you gone and made me cry.” Still holding onto Stephanie’s
hand, he reached  up with his opposite sleeve  and wiped his eyes. “Haven’t got  a clue what’s
happenin’ to me . . . in my old age. Must be gettin’ soft or somethin’.”

Stephanie couldn’t help but sob between laughs. “M–Maybe you’re pregnant!”

The old man waved Mitch close and embraced them  both. This truly was heaven on earth. “I think it
just took me seventy-five years to figure out  what’s most important in life,” he smiled. “And
they’re right here in my arms.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

123

SIXTEEN

NURSE ONCE AGAIN SENT for Cap’n, who’d been off  duty since 4:00 p.m. When he arrived, the small
patrol of  vagrants met  in the  dark alley  behind Eddie’s old  truck and  huddled around  like a
grade-school football team drawing up their next play.

“Accordin’ t’  what Sunny says,  Luke told  ‘im Clint and  Mister Vinnie think  Eddie jumped
outta the second-story window. Sunny was here  watchin’. Says Eddie stayed inside.” Nurse turned
to Greg, who  nodded in return. “Means  he got t’ be  inside somewheres. . .  . Now, ever’body
knows who Mister Vinnie is, right?”

A puzzled look  crossed Greg’s face. “Who’s he?”  The focus of every teammate  turned to the
new kid on the block.

“For the love o’ soup, soldier!” Cap’n exclaimed. “You don’t know Mister Vinnie?”

Nurse was quick to defend the newcomer. “Easy, Cap’n, he’s only been out a few days.”

“That’s  right. You’s  a tender  new recruit,”  Cap’n said  with a  playful barb.  “Most
everyone knows who Mister Vinnie is. You give your blood at American Bio Medical, get fifteen bucks.
Find a credit card application, it’s worth seventy-five. Work as a pigeon, make a hundred. Don’t
matter which store you stop at on this  block, it’s Mister Vinnie’s money.” Greg didn’t have
a clue what Cap’n was talking about. Nurse  was anxious to move on. “This’s no country picnic.
If’n Mister Vinnie finds  us snoopin’ in his building, they’ll be pickin’  us off the tracks
in little pieces.”

“Don’t you think it’s time we called the  police?” Greg finally asked. Cap’n threw his big
head back, his barrel  chest exploding in raucous laughter. The others in  the circle joined in, the
banter bouncing from building to building down the dim alley. When it subsided, Cap’n said, “You
was robbed  on the street.  Why didn’t you  ask someone to call  ‘em then?” Before  Greg could
respond, Cap’n continued. “Look 124 KEN MERRELL

at us. We  live on the street, feedin’  on handouts from Reverend Keller’s soup  kitchen. We all
been in  and outta the slammer  dozens a’ times  fer things we never  done, and everyone of  us is
crazier ‘n a wild horse on loco weed. ‘Less  we got solid proof, we got nothin’.” The group,
as one, gave a nod.

“That outta the way?”  Nurse asked. Everyone nodded again, this  time including Greg. “Let’s
review our assets. Smitty’s got to go in to open the metal door. Got your picks?” Smitty blinked
hard, his version of yes, and patted a large leather fanny pack buckled at his waist.

“Sound’s got to undo the alarm.”

Sound, who  seemed the most  normal of the  bunch, smiled at the  challenge. “It would  be easier,
though,”  he countered,  “to  cut the  phone  lines and  trip  the breaker.”  He  was a  tall,
flaxen-faced man.  Dark rings  under his  sunken eyes and  a gaunt  frame matched  his high-pitched,
techno-nerd voice. “But I can do it inside, if you really want me to.”

“We don’t want ‘em to know we was  here,” replied Nurse. Sound sighed in agreement. “Okay,
then. Cap’n has ta’  go in ‘cause he’s got the flashlight. Belle,  me, Sunny and Ritter’ll
be a watchin’  from outside. If’n someone comes  to the front, Ritter’ll bang on  the gas pipe
twice, then wait, then  twice more. If’n someone comes to the back,  he’ll bang once, then wait,
then once more. Got that?”

“I’d like to volunteer to go in,” Greg blurted out. Everyone gave the newcomer a stare.

“Why?” asked Ritter and Nurse in unison.

“Didn’t you say something about credit cards?”

“Yeah,” Cap’n said. “Mister Vinnie pays for applications the other homeless no-goods find in
the trash. If they’re good for credit, he pays

‘em seventy-five.”

Greg shook his head, still stung by what had happened to him. “That’s why I’m here.”

Cap’n flinched. “What? You a cop?”

“No. I  mean my  life was ruined.  Someone used  my name and  credit. They got  me for  almost two
hundred thousand.”

Sound gasped and put his hand to his mouth.

“Okay, so what are your assets?” Nurse interrupted.

“Like I said, I don’t have any. I’m broke, bankrupt, lost my wife, home . . .”

Nurse wagged her head side to side. “That’s not what we mean.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

125

Cap’n’s got a light;  Smitty can pick a lock; Sound hates noise  from alarms–takes ‘em apart
instead. What can you do?”

“I’m a computer programmer.”

“You go too.” Nurse waved her crippled hand. “Cap’n gives the orders.”

Stephanie stood and slid her chair in. “ That stew  was the best yet, Grandpa. Now you two go talk
your car talk and I’ll do the dishes.”

She lifted her  palms to show that she  meant business. “I think you’ve both  heard enough about
baby names and childbirth for one night.”

Grandpa slowly  stood. “Thank you, dear.  Think I’ll take  you up on  that offer, go out  on the
porch–that is, if I can get  the rigor mortis out of my old bones.” He put  a hand to his hip to
help straighten up. “Now I believe I know what it’s going to feel like to be dead.”

“Grandpa!” Stephanie chided. “Don’t  even say things like that. A tough  old codger like you
will be  around a long time.  Besides, you’ve got two  great-grandchildren that are going  to need
you.”

“You might be right, but I’m no spring  chicken. We better start thinkin’ about what we should
do with this place, you know.”

“We will, Pa. There’s plenty of time.” Mitch swung  open the front door and stepped out on the
porch.

“That outfit from Yucca Mountain was back again,”  Grandpa said as he pulled his pipe pouch from
his pocket. “Been stirrin’  up trouble with the locals. The Indians won’t  even buy parts here
anymore.” He stuffed the  end of the ancient hickory implement with tobacco  and pressed it to his
lips. He gave the pipe’s barrel a nostalgic  tap. “If your Grandma was still alive, she’d skin
me alive with a butter knife for starting up this dirty ol’ habit again.”

Grandpa’s property was bordered by the interstate to  the east and Indian tribal land to the west.
He’d successfully won a  lawsuit against the government 30 years  before, after they’d illegally
put an off-ramp  through his land. The tribe  didn’t want the white man’s exit,  so Grandpa sued
the government, and won. He’d had many friends in the tribe–mostly gone, now–who’d supported
his business to help him with the attorneys’ fees.

“What about the guys from Yucca Mountain?” Mitch asked.

“Rumor has it they paid  the tribe a quarter million to force me to  sell. The money’s theirs as
soon as I’m outta business. Another twenty-126 KEN MERRELL

five million goes to the tribe when the road’s finished. Only thing keepin’

one of the  locals from killin’ me  and takin’ the land  is the war they’re  having within the
tribe about a  highway cuttin’ their land in two.  Meantime, a few of the local  bullies deal with
anyone that  buys parts from me.  I think they’re  on the payroll  of the outfit workin’  on the
mountain.”

“I didn’t think they’d even decided where to put the road yet.”

“You kiddin’, boy? Anyone droppin’ that kind of cash knows what they’re doin’.”

“How long’s this been going on?”

“‘Bout a year. I’d sell  and move to the city, if I wasn’t  so dog-gone stubborn. It’s the
principle a’ the thing, you know. Ain’t right someone showin’ up and takin’ somethin’ that
don’t belong to ‘em.”

“How much longer do you think you can hold out?”

“Year–maybe two, if I  keep doin’ repairs and sellin’ cars. The savings  all went to fix the
place up.”

“Dang, Grandpa, you shouldn’t have done it then.”

“I haven’t felt so good  about spendin’ my money for a long time. I want  to be sure you bring
those little ones to see me without ‘em gettin’

all grimy.”  The old  man pulled a  match from  his shirt pocket  and struck it  on his  pant leg.
“I’ll quit smokin’ again, too, before the babies come.”

“That’s why  you quit?” Mitch watched  him draw the flame  to his pipe and  remembered the old
geezer used to smoke it before his son died. “Because I moved in?”

“Your grandma insisted. Had a mind of her own, that woman. Wasn’t enough I took it to the porch.
She insisted I set a good example for you. . .  . By the way, ‘d you sell the goat?” He abruptly
changed the subject, perhaps, Mitch thought, to keep  the memories at bay. Mitch’s eyes dropped to
the wooden porch. “What is it, boy? I’d know that look even from the grave.”

“It’s been . . . stolen.”

“Balls of fire! What happened?”

Mitch  reluctantly launched  into the  story .  .  . all  about Vinnie  and his  fancy Ferrari,  the
mobster’s job offer,  and his stolen car.  Back at the gym,  Cap’n led the motley  crew down the
darkened corridor toward the  second metal door. Smitty, having successfully  jimmied the back door,
drew the  pick set  from his  pants pocket.  “Gotta hold on,  Smitty. Let  Sound disarm  the alarm
first.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

127

Sound took a screwdriver from  the tool belt at his waist and pressed it  behind the small keypad on
the  wall.  “This’ll  be too  easy.  Standard-issue,  residential  .  . .  low-tech,  Radionics,
single-entry keypad . . . no mercurylevel protection.”  Within 30 seconds he’d popped it off the
wall. “Hmm.”

He crossed one arm at his chest, lifted the other to support his chin in thought. His weight shifted
to one long leg, pivoting his hips to the side. “If I could just remember . . . which wire to pull
first. My mind isn’t what it was before I got sick.”

“Take it  easy. You can do  it,” whispered Cap’n. “We  don’t wanna scrub the  mission on a
technicality.”

Smitty had placed the tension bar in the door lock  and slid the pick inside to the pins. Seeing the
arched shadow  cast across the  room to the  opposite wall, Greg  realized the source  of Smitty’s
hunched-over posture. He felt his own heart rate quicken and his breath become labored by the stress
of the break-in. What a rush!

“I think I got it,” Sound murmured. He reached down and tugged a thin green wire and a miniature
screwdriver from the pouch.  With a flick of the wrist  he attached one end of the  wire to a stubby
screw on the  back of the keypad.  “Cross your fingers.” Then  he lifted both hands  in the air,
fingers crossed, and mumbled a cursory prayer, his eyes squeezed shut.

Sound  dropped the  screwdriver back  onto the  pad and  promptly retracted  his hand,  pressing his
thumbnail to his front teeth and nibbling pensively. In an instant, the driver was back in his pouch
and  the small  wire mounted  in  position. The  keypad beeped  and  a luminous  green digital  glow
reflected down the front of  Sound’s drab shirt and pants. He sighed a  soft breath and lifted the
pad to review the readout.

“Oh  my gosh!”  he  exclaimed,  wide-eyed. “We’ve  got  just  twenty-eight seconds–I  mean
twenty-six!” He  dropped the keypad, left  it dangling by the  wires poking through the  wall, and
raced down the hall to the back door, his arms  and legs waving wildly in the air. Cap’n shone his
beam on the fleeing man, then back on the keypad. Lifting the pad, everyone saw the readout–“19,
18, 17 . . .”  The back door clicked shut. “Time to pull out  the troops,” he ordered. Cap’n
lumbered down the  hall, his army boots thumping  the floor with every step. Smitty  was three steps
behind; Greg stumbled to catch up.

“Fire in  the hole!”  Cap’n hollered  as he jumped  from the  landing, careening  head-on into
Ritter, who was standing in his path. The two 128 KEN MERRELL

men tumbled, rolled, and lay sprawled on the crumbled asphalt, with Ritter gasping for air.

Greg shook his head at the sight–equal parts  Three Stooges and Keystone Cops. The ragtag band was
running from a simple building  alarm as if a bomb were about to detonate. How  far down the pit had
he fallen? Six months before he’d have been sitting  in his posh corner office on the eighth floor
of  the biggest  computer chip  manufacturer in  the state  of Nevada.  Now he  was breaking  into a
stinking  gym–shoulder  to shoulder  with  a  bunch of  misfit  vagrants–to  rescue its  missing
owner–and he  was actually  getting a  rush from it.  “The Alley  Team,” that’s  what he’d
called them; “or maybe the A-team” for short. A rare bunch of sick alley cats.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

129

SEVENTEEN

GRANDPA TAPPED HIS PIPE on the railing, dislodging a sooty plug from its barrel. He pulled the pouch
from his pocket and tucked the old blackened hickory piece inside. “Looks like you got a choice to
make, boy. Either find your car and get it back, or call the cops.”

“I don’t think it’s quite that simple. I might be in trouble with the law again.”

Grandpa’s voice  raised nearly a  whole octave. “Hell’s bells  boy. Didn’t ya’  learn your
lesson the last time?”

“This was different.  I saved some guy’s  life. It looked like  he was going to  blow his brains
out. Before it was over, the engineer from the train thought I was robbing the guy at gunpoint.”

“So you ran, I take it?” Mitch nodded. “Can’t blame ya, I guess. That must’ve brought back
a flood a’ ugly memories.”

Mitch nodded again.

“Been doin’ a bit of  thinkin’ about that myself. Don’t think I been  fair to you. I ain’t
spoke his  name since the  funeral. Hurt too  much–my only son  takin’ his own  life.” Grandpa
blinked back the  tears. “. . . Maybe  it’s time for you and  me to go see one  of them shrinks.
I’ve got to get past it so I can tell  you ‘bout your father before I’m gone. Besides, we been
runnin’ away from it too long.”

“Yeah. . . . That’d be nice,” Mitch said, followed by a long silence. Finally intruding on the
warm night  air, Grandpa shrugged. “I’ve  got a friend, a  highway patrolman that owes  me a few
favors. I’ll  see what  he can find.  Maybe you can  still make  it right. Meanwhile,  perhaps you
ought’a bring that fancy car  that belongs to this wise guy you been  tellin’ me ‘bout up here
and hide it in the garage. Do a little swap with him–kind’a balance the scales a bit.”

“I don’t know, Pa. This guy’s a bad dude.”

“Nothin’ a retired Navy Seal and his pack o’ dogs can’t handle.”

130 KEN MERRELL

“Dogs!” Stephanie said, stepping out onto the porch and glancing around.

“No, the dogs are still  locked up, Stef,” Mitch assured her. “. . .  Well, I’ll get back to
you, Grandpa; it’s getting late and we have an hour’s drive. I’ll call you tomorrow.”

Stephanie slipped on her shoes and gave the old  man a hug. “I love you,” she crooned. “Thanks
for the stew.”

“My pleasure, you  beautiful girl. You bring this man  of yours back every week and  I’ll have a
pot waitin’. And take care of my greatgrandchildren.”

“We will.”

He lingered  on the porch, watched  as the taillights disappeared  down the road and  up the freeway
on-ramp. “I love you too, girl,” he whispered. The Alley Team huddled near the truck. Forth down
and seventyfive yards to go. It didn’t look good.

“Why in the  blasted darkness didn’t you tell  me you was comin’ to cut  the wires?” Cap’n
groused, peering across the huddle at Sound.

“No time.  I made it by  the skin of my  teeth as it was.”  Sound’s voice rose to  an emphatic
whine. “Sometimes there isn’t time to wait for orders.”

Nurse grimaced. “Now settle down. A few bumps and bruises, is all.”

“Bruises, my bunions! The bloody ox ‘bout knocked me block off.”

In all the excitement, Ritter’s cockney accent sounded even more pronounced than usual.

“Learn to keep your bloomin’ butt outta the road . . .”

“Okay, okay,  boys,” scolded the old  woman. “That’s about enough  squabblin’. Ain’t got
time fer fightin’–gotta find Eddie, ‘member?”

The thought of Eddie’s  feared plight brought everyone back on the  same page. “Smitty’s gotta
open  the door;  Sound’s  gotta switch  the wire  and  help get  the  power back  on; Cap’n  and
Sunny’ll search  the basement. Now  hurry–don’t know when  Mister Vinnie’s comin’  for his
stuff.”

The group returned to the  back of the building and climbed the steps.  Smitty leaned over the lock.
Greg looked on in awe. “You’ve got to show me how you do that.”

Smitty grinned enthusiastically as the door knob turned and he

THE IDENTITY CHECK

131

stepped aside to  let the crew in. The four  men entered the hall and Smitty  again dropped his pick
set into the lock to the basement door. Sound  fiddled with the wire. A minute later, he snapped the
keypad back into place and  gave a double thumbs-up. He was finished. The  lock clicked and the knob
turned. Smitty broke into a  wide smile, bowed, and waved his hand in  a flourish toward the stairs.
Sound started to the back to restore the power and phone lines.

Cap’n  led the  descent,  his light  panning  the shadowy  staircase. Each  stair  issued its  own
distinctive squeak  under his  heavy load. Greg  noticed his  own heart racing  again and  his palms
growing moister at each passing moment.

All at once a light came on. Both men froze in their tracks.

“Eddie,” the  Cap’n whispered.  “That you?”  No one  answered. Greg’s  heart was  in his
throat, the  blood ringing in  his ears .  . . then remembered  and whispered, “It’s  just Sound
turning on the power.”

Cap’n exhaled. “My stars  and tattered stripes, I knew that,” he whispered  in return. The men
stopped when they reached the concrete floor. Cautiously they inspected the dimly-lit room. A single
bulb hung  from the  ceiling, a night  light of  sorts. It  cast eery shadows  across the  jumble of
paraphernalia before them: computers, piles of  credit-card applications, phone books. File cabinets
lined the walls.  Cap’n took to mumbling.  “Sabotagin’ infiltrators . .  . Lebanon underground
spies sneakin’  ‘round . .  . covert operations  . . . makin’  bombs and blowin’  up Federal
buildings, shootin’ planes out of the sky. .  . . Can’t tolerate this kind’a illegal activity,
soldier. This outfit’s the enemy. We gotta burn this rat hole, take it out a’ operation.”

“Cap’n, I’m waiting  for your orders,” Greg  pleaded, deferring to his leader.  “I need to
see if I can open a computer while you look for Eddie.”

Cap’n seemed  to return  from his daydream.  “You know  your orders, Private.  Now get  to work.
I’ll find Eddie.”

Greg sat  down and  switched on the  nearest computer.  When the setup  command opened,  his fingers
tapped with digital speed. “Come on, you piece  of trash.” He rapped the table with his knuckles
while he waited for the outdated machine to  work through his commands. Nervous, he reached over and
flipped on the second computer, rattling his keys absentmindedly.

132 KEN MERRELL

Cap’n, led by his flashlight beam, bolted back  in the room. “He’s not down here. Let’s move
upstairs and check out the offices.”

“Hold on. I’m just  about in.” The black screen flashed “ready.”  GregHart, he typed, then
hit enter.

Cap’n looked over the computer whiz’s shoulder. “Who’s Greg Hart?”

“Me.”

“Hey, we  ain’t here  to fix your  problems. We  gotta find Eddie.”  The screen  flashed blue.
“Not found,” it read.

“Hold on.” Greg shut off the computer he was working on and slipped behind the other. “Give me
a few more minutes.”

The pipes in the building sounded a sharp, two-ring clank. “That’s our signal to get outta here.
Someone’s comin.”

“One more minute.” Fingertips  a-blur, he typed in the back-door DOS  commands. The pipes banged
again.

“We’s movin’ now, Private.” Cap’n clicked off the  switch and picked Greg up off the chair
like a rag doll.

“Okay, put me down! I get the point.”

Disregarding the man’s pleas,  Cap’n hauled his “Private” to the first  step and started him
upward. Both men hurried to  the landing and peeked out the door, around  the corner toward the back
door. It opened with a thud. Three men, talking quietly, stood talking on the back porch.

“Go, soldier!” Cap’n shoved Greg out the door into  the hall. Greg, a naked mole caught in the
light of  day, crouched, frozen, staring  down the hallway  at the men. “Go!”  Cap’n whispered
again, pointing at the  stairway. Greg tiptoed backwards to the second set  of stairs, while Cap’n
eased the door shut and went the other direction into the gym. One of the men entered the unlit hall
and flipped on  the light. A second  man barged past the  first, cussed, and switched  it off. “We
didn’t come in the middle of the night to tell the whole world we’re here,” he snarled. It was
Vinnie.

“Pops wanders around all the time” Clint answered. “Nobody even pays attention anymore.”

“Well, we ain’t Pops.”

Greg, pausing at the bottom of the stairway, felt the tension rise as Clint walked in his direction.
The  adrenalin  surge  of  breaking  and  entering  he’d  experienced  earlier  had  converted  to
full-fledged fear–terror, to be exact.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

133

“The Friday drop’s in my office.” Clint stopped at  the keypad on the wall. Greg backed up and
placed his foot on the bottom stair. The keypad beeped, the stair squeaked. Clint turned his head to
listen. Then  the keypad  started to squeal.  Thinking all  heck had broken  loose, Greg  turned and
bounded up the steps.

“What’s the matter with it?” Vinnie asked over the din as Clint punched in the code again.

“How should I know? Do I look like an  alarm specialist?” He raised his fist and gave the keypad
a  thump. It  fell from  the wall,  wires everywhere.  The small  green wire  screwed onto  the back
instantly glowed a bright crimson, smoldered a second, and burned in half, choking off the shrieking
alarm.

“I know enough to  know someone’s been screwin’ with it,” Vinnie said,  pulling a new pistol
from its holster. “Probably the old man.”

Mitch and Stephanie turned  the corner of their cul-de-sac. The gang bangers  were still hanging out
on the  street, drinking their  beers, smoking their  Havana weed; the girls  danced to the  beat of
ear-piercing music,  prancing in  front of  their guys.  Mitch waved  and honked.  The smell  of pot
drifted through the open car window. Stephanie narrowed her lips, clearly annoyed. “How can you do
that?”

“What, be their friend?” They’d had the same discussion before.

“They give me the willies.”

“They’re not that bad, just confused. They probably don’t have much of a family life. . . .”
Mitch spied  the glowing red ember  of Al’s cigarette on  the porch next door.  An inky silhouette
fell against the open door, thrown by the streetlight. The soft glow flooded the inert face of their
shirtless neighbor. “Now there’s a man I don’t trust,” scoffed Mitch. “He’s got too much
time on his  hands. Make sure you use the  garage door opener and keep the  house locked while I’m
gone.”

Stephanie shuddered involuntarily. “He gives me the creeps.”

Mitch closed the  garage door and circled the  car to help Stephanie out. “You  know, this’ll be
the first  time we’ll  be apart,” she  said. Her bottom  lip drooped  in her best  ‘sad little
girl’ impression..  “So .  . .”–she gave  Mitch an inviting  pinch on  the cheek–”we’d
better make a few memories to keep your mind where it belongs.”

134 KEN MERRELL

The three dark figures  moved down the creaky set of stairs to  the basement. Clint had successfully
assured Vinnie there was no need for the gun.

“Look, nothing’s out of place.  If Pops wanted us in jail he could’a  had the cops here months
ago.”

Vinnie’s eyes swept back and forth. “I’ll feel better when we’re outta this place and set up
in the warehouse. The old man don’t know where it is, does he?”

“No way.”

Soon the driver  and passenger from the truck  had joined Vinnie, Clint and Frank,  the other grunt.
Now five strong, they  began loading equipment in boxes and wheeling files  on dollies up the stairs
to the  truck. Greg stood  in the upper  hallway, listening to the  muted voices and  squeaky wheels
toting away every scrap of evidence showing  that he’d been bilked–the only life-saving evidence
that could possibly resurrect his financial future.

Clint excused  himself and started up  the stairs to  retrieve Friday’s drop. Hearing  the falling
footsteps, Greg crept into the storage room, pressed  the door all but closed and peeked through the
crack. Clint, meanwhile,  turned on his office  light, scanned the room,  then remembered Angelo’s
anxious departure the night  before. He’d dropped the box on the storage  room floor. Flicking the
light off, he  proceeded down the hall.  Greg, in scrambling to find  a place to hide,  nudged a box
from a pile, sending it crashing to the floor. Clint stopped and listened. Pausing only a moment, he
pushed open the door and turned on the light.  Greg cowered on the floor only five feet away, behind
a shelf packed  with old punching bags and  gloves. He stared through the open  shelves at Clint’s
leather sandals. Clint took  two steps forward through the debris, then  stopped short. Greg, barely
out of sight, was sure the man could hear his heaving lungs and the pounding of his heart.

Clint, indeed, was well aware of the other’s presence.  He bent over and called out quietly to the
huddled figure. “I heard you on the steps. You might as well come out.”

Greg peered  at Clint’s massive  arms through the  shelf slats. A  heartattack might help  now, he
thought. There  was no way he’d  be able to  take on this guy.  Greg lifted himself to  his knees,
trying to form the words  of surrender. Perhaps as a vagrant, he’d merely  be thrown back out onto
the street.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

135

“You ain’t  a coward–and Vinnie doesn’t  know you’re here,” Clint  continued. “We’re
moving the  operation out of  the basement, Pops.  Tomorrow it’ll be like  it used to  be.” With
that, Clint turned and left the room, latching the door behind him.

Greg breathed a sigh of relief. He thinks I’m  Eddie. Then, feeling the blood drain from his face,
he collapsed back onto  the floor, gasping for air. Mitch lay on  his pillow, his thoughts, far-off,
staring up at  the ceiling. Stephanie’s labored breathing  could be heard at his  side. Ever since
the little  lives had begun  to grow inside  her, she’d acquired when  she slept, a  soft resonant
snore. Her hand twitched on his chest as she dozed peacefully.

He couldn’t ask Grandpa for money; the old man didn’t  have much to give. Nor could he go to the
police just yet;  it would kill Stephanie if he  were busted again. And his promise  to pay the rent
had come and gone. The shutoff notices were piling up.

He eased out from  under Stephanie’s arm, slipped from bed and retreated  to the kitchen. Maybe he
could get  approved for  a new card  and transfer a  balance before  he left the  following evening.
Plopping down onto a chair by the phone,  he tore open the application with his thumb. Pre-approved,
$5,000 credit, 2.9% on  transferred balances forsix months, call 24 hours a  day, seven days a week.
He dialed the number.

When the operator came on the line, he  read off the printed confirmation number. After a smattering
of questions, he was transferred to an “account representative.” Minutes later, she came back on
the line.

“Mr. Wilson,”  she politely said, “I’m  going to have  to send this application  through the
credit department before we can approve it. We’ll be contacting you by mail.”

Mitch grimaced. “I thought I was pre-approved.”

“Well, sir, it  appears that several things have  changed on your credit report.  Maybe you should
contact the reporting agencies and make sure everything is in order?”

Mitch thought about the  phone, power and gas bills–barely over 30 days,  not possibly reported as
late yet. “What kind of things are showing up?”

“I’m sorry, sir, I’m not allowed to discuss it over the phone. I’ll be 136 KEN MERRELL

happy to give you the numbers for the reporting agencies . . .”

“Please.” Mitch jotted  down the toll-free numbers  to the three major  agencies and immediately
called. All three  were closed until Monday.  He went back to  bed, feeling like a  noose was slowly
being cinched down  around his neck. There was no  option left but one: Vinnie. It  was time to take
him on.

Staying clear of the windows, Greg passed the time by quietly exploring every nook and cranny of the
storage room.  Pry marks on the  paint beneath what appeared  to be a laundry  chute door–together
with the bar  laying nearby–piqued his curiosity. He  lifted the door with his fingers.  A wave of
foul air rushed out as he peered into its musty depths. The unmistakable marks of hand prints in the
dust lined  the walls. Gulping a  breath of fresh  air, he forced his  head into the opening  to see
where it went. “Hello?” he whispered. He could  almost taste the acrid smell of vomit, summoning
once  more the  memory of  his own  destructive behavior  of a  few days  earlier. No  one answered.
“Eddie .

. .  you there?” Having  left his own  desperate feelings of depression  far behind, Greg  was now
genuinely concerned  with the old man’s  welfare. He turned  to the window, cautiously  eyeing the
street below.  The wait seemed  like hours before  the delivery truck  finally pulled from  the back
door, one  fancy car  in the  lead, one  taking up the  rear. Greg  heard the  engine crank  over on
Eddie’s pickup. Again  peeking out, he saw  the battered old truck  give a heave and  a puff, then
quit, not having moved  an inch. Greg crept out of the storage  room. Cap’n’s muted voice echoed
up the stairs. “Sunny, you find anything?”

“Bring your flashlight,”  Greg answered. “And hurry.”  The big man bolted up  the stairs and
the two  of them–Cap’n’s flashlight  in hand–squinted down the  chute. There, crumpled  in a
broken heap at the bottom of the shaft, lay Eddie.

“Eddie!”  Cap’n yelled,  his voice  thundering  down the  shaft.  The old  man didn’t  stir.
“Eddie . . .  Eddie!” Turning on his heels, he charged from  the room, yelling instructions over
his shoulder. “Get Nurse and call an ambulance!”

Halfway down the stairs the  sound of splintering wood could be heard bouncing  off the walls of the
old gym. By the time Greg had

THE IDENTITY CHECK

137

caught up to Cap’n,  the bulldozer of a man had  torn the locked metal door from  off its jamb and
was nearly  at the base of  the stairs. Greg flew  down the hall and  out the back door.  Smitty and
Sound terminated their  argument about whether to  follow the moving truck and  listened to Greg’s
plea for  help. “Eddie fell down  the chute!” His  tone was that  of a powerful executive  at an
important boardroom meeting. Nurse, hearing the news, gasped in horror. “In the well?”

“No,  I think  it’s a  laundry chute.  He’s  at the  bottom; can’t  tell if  he’s dead  or
alive.”

Greg and the  rag-tag group tore back down  the stairs. The sound of splintering  wood and crumbling
sheet rock was as ominous as the cloud billowing up from the basement. They reached the bottom stair
and felt their way  through the dust and debris. Cap’n’s steady grunts  brought them to where he
worked. Bloody fist marks  and gaping holes adorned the far wall. Cap’n,  wielding his bare hands,
was shredding through decades of remodeling  and termite-infested lumber that formed Eddie’s tomb.
Layer upon layer, the powerful man tore recklessly  at the rotting wood and decayed plaster until at
last he broke through. The foul stench of vomit, urine and blood permeated the air, riding the dust.
Cap’n knelt near a dried puddle of blood running from the rough boards of the outcropping chute.

Amid the confusion, Nurse frantically paced the floor, stumbling in the dim basement light, her eyes
distant and unfocused. She coughed and sputtered, circling the room, babbling incoherently. Every so
often she’d  hunker down and  cry out, “No, no  . . .  not again .  . . not again,”  her fists
clenched at her  side. “Should’a buried that well  last year when it dried  up,” she repeated,
over and over. “Told ya  we should’a! . . .” Occasionally she would  look over at Cap’n, who
was still pulling sections  of horizontal lath from the wall. Finally  Cap’n stopped digging. Greg
knelt nearby,  holding the flashlight.  Its beam pierced  the thick air  to reveal a  ghastly sight.
Eddie’s dust-covered face, arms and hands were  swollen beyond recognition. From his waist down he
was covered in a crusty coat of blood. His mangled legs were bent at a grotesque angle.

Nurse looked on  in horror. An unnatural scream  surged from her throat. Then,  before collapsing to
the floor, she wailed, “Is she dead? Can you save  her? . . . Oh, please, dear God, don’t let my
baby die!”

Greg pressed a finger to the side of the old man’s neck. Cocking his 138 KEN MERRELL

ear as if  listening for a heartbeat, he  shook his head slowly. Then he  hesitated. “Wait! I’ve
got a pulse.”

Cap’n yanked a few remaining fragments from the  wall. “That’s it, you tough old codger. A rat
hole  ain’t no  place for  a boxin’  champ to  die. You  fight, you  old cuss.  Fight!” Sirens
advertised the arrival  of the ambulance. Nurse rocked  slowly back and forth, still  slumped on the
concrete floor, her tear-stained face buried in her arms.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

139

EIGHTEEN

NINE O’CLOCK. THE SUN had inched higher  above the rolling desert horizon, casting promising beams
through  the hospital  windows  that lined  the  east wall  of  the waiting  room.  The Alley  Team,
grim-faced, sat huddled  at the opposite wall.  They hardly spoke. Like  frightened children waiting
for the doctor to give them a shot, they sat, still and somber.

A woman with permed,  graying hair sat across the way, her back  to the windows. Impeccably dressed,
her long, manicured nails  were in keeping with the sparkling diamond ring  on her finger. Nurse had
not yet snapped out of  her stupor. A remote fear penetrated her entire being.  In her mind, an hour
glass tumbled in space and time, spilling sand as  it went. It careened to and fro in the slowmotion
frames of an  old-fashioned movie, flashing pictures from  40 years past. Greg had  his arms circled
about Nurse’s stooped shoulders,  her matted, gray head resting on his  chest. They rocked gently,
her eyes still those of  a child awakened from the clutches of a night  terror. The team of vagrants
glanced up occasionally, impotent, totally helpless,  totally hopeless. Comforting the old woman who
had given him so much comfort, Greg spoke softly.  “The doctors have hope. . . . Eddie’s a tough
old man. . . .”

“I ain’t never seen her like this,” Ritter  whispered to the others. He was as concerned about
Nurse as he was about Eddie. “And I’ve know her for more’n ten years.”

Cap’n gave the old  woman’s hand a sympathetic pat. “Eddie’s like a  brother to her. She’s
been livin’ in  his alley off and on now  ‘bout forty ‘er fifty years.” The  stranger in the
waiting room strained to overhear the conversation.

“Does anyone know what she kept mumbling about?” Greg asked.

“When we found Eddie, that’s when she went off–something about a 140 KEN MERRELL

well and a baby.” Each member of the little close-knit pack in turn lowered his eyes and shook his
head.

It was then the woman across the aisle spoke up.  “I might be able to help.” She got to her feet
and walked toward them, her high heels clicking.

“The best I can remember, her name is Rebecca Lambert. I knew her when I was six years old.”

“Who are you?” Greg interrupted.

“Margaret Thurston, Eddie’s  daughter.” Everyone’s jaw dropped in  stunned silence. “Eddie
called me three days  ago in New York, he said he  needed to see me. He told me  it was important. I
hadn’t been out to visit for several years and decided it was a good time to come see my dad–and
my son Clinton.” Her tone was decidedly sarcastic when she spoke Clint’s name. “When I arrived
at the gym this morning, I was told Eddie was here. Do any of you know what happened?”

After several anxious moments, Greg spoke up. “We think he fell or was shoved down the old laundry
chute. We’re still waiting for the doctors to tell us how he’s doing.” Cap’n threw a furious
glance in Greg’s direction.

Margaret took no  notice. “They told me they expect  him to be out of surgery  within the hour.”
She grimaced. “Who would want to hurt him?”

The Alley  Team looked back and  forth at each other,  every lip securely locked.  Cap’n stood and
offered Eddie’s daughter his seat.

“An hour,  that’s good–they  haven’t told  us much at  all.” Greg  attempted to  steer the
conversation in a  more positive direction. He gave Nurse  a pat on the arm. “You  say her name is
Rebecca.”

“I was six years old when my father moved  here and opened the gym,” began Margaret. “When the
health department  came to inspect the  place, they started inquiring  about me and where  my mother
was. When they  discovered Eddie was raising  a daughter–by himself, in  a male environment–they
threatened to take me away. Dad started looking  into boarding schools. Eventually he found one. The
day I  left I  cried on  my best  and only friend’s  shoulder.” Margaret  reached over  and took
Nurse’s hand. “Rebecca. . . . Rebecca, it’s Marge,” she cooed.

“I’m Eddie’s little girl. Remember me?”

“Marge? . . . That  you? You back from school so soon? . . .  Your Daddy’s sure goin’ ta’ be
glad to see you ‘gain. .  . . I hear him cryin’ in his room at  night for you. He’s missed you
somethin’ terrible.” Nurse

THE IDENTITY CHECK

141

smacked her gums and blinked glassily into the woman’s hazel-green eyes.

“Look at you. . . . You’re growin’ up so pretty. Eddie hasn’t stopped talkin’

‘bout you since ya’ left.”

Margaret struggled to maintain her composure. “Rebecca, how’s Belle?”

she asked. As a small girl she’d pretended to play with Nurse’s “daughter.”

The old woman’s eyes narrowed in on Margaret’s face. “She’s dead,”

she whimpered.  “My little girl’s  dead. .  . . Fell  in the well  . .  . and I  couldn’t find
her.”

Margaret knelt in front of Nurse, her own eyes brimming with tears.

“I know, sweetie, I know.” The women embraced, a melding of rags and riches–bridged by the tie
of friendship. Nurse,  in wave after wave of  anguished sobs, mourned the loss of  her daughter. For
the first time  in 50 years, she  mourned. The team of vagrants  hung their heads in  respect at the
loss of a friend. Belle, a girl they knew yet had never met, was finally being put to rest.

Stephanie woke to the sound  of a toothbrush striking the edge of the sink.  It was one of Mitch’s
annoying bathroom habits. Leaving the seat up and the door open were the two worst. She’d tried to
overlook them. But now,  after three years, they were getting to her.  Somehow she’d never found a
good way  to tell him  how she felt.  Besides, he’d grown  up in a  junkyard; what else  could she
expect? He possessed so many wonderful traits–those,  by far, balanced out the bad. Mitch traipsed
into the bedroom  wrapped in a towel, face  clean shaven, wet hair disheveled.  She reminded herself
how good-looking he was. “Good morning, beautiful queen.”  He smiled, trying not to think of the
stolen car or  the fiscal burden he  bore on his broad  shoulders. Stephanie dug her  elbow into the
mattress, rolled her  tummy to the side,  and rested her head in  her hand. She frowned  down at the
towel, now crumpled on the floor. She would be the one  to pick it up and put it in the laundry only
a few steps away. Mitch never did. “Are you  coming to church this morning?” she asked, her tone
hopeful.

“Nah. Too much to do before I leave. Maybe next week.”

“That’s what you  said last week, and  every week since we’ve been  married,” she protested.
Sunday mornings were  another source of irritation  between them. Mitch had promised  her they would
raise their children in a religious home. She was Presbyterian; he, Lutheran. She 142 KEN MERRELL

didn’t even mind which church they went to, so long as they could go as a family.

“No,  it isn’t,”  Mitch countered  a  little defensively.  “I’ve gone  several times  with
you.”

“Six times in three years–Christmas and Easter . . .”

“And you’re counting?” The  words stung. His back to her, he continued  to rummage through the
packed closet for his luggage.

“No, it’s just that our babies will be here soon, and I was hoping . ..”

Her husband wasn’t listening. “Have you been messing with my files?”

He opened the lid to the small metal box to tuck in a receipt that was sticking part way out.

“Your files?”

“For crying out  loud, Stef!” Mitch jerked the box  from the corner with both hands  and held up
the wadded papers.

Stephanie  rolled from  bed and  stepped over  to  the small  walk-in closet.  “Don’t blame  me.
You’re the one that handles the money in this house.”

“And you’re the one  that insists on keeping my receipts put away.  I certainly didn’t scatter
this stuff all over. So who else would?”

The harsh  accusations were enough  to drive Stephanie  from the room. With  a slam of  the bathroom
door, Mitch was left alone to sort through the clutter of paperwork.

The doctor appeared in the carpeted waiting room area. Inquiring at the front desk, a nurse gestured
toward Mrs. Thurston. Approaching, he said, “Mrs. Thurston, are you Eddie Alders’ daughter?”

Margaret looked up. “Yes.”

“Are these people with you?” he added, taking in the odd-looking assortment of vagrants.

Margaret nodded. “This is Eddie’s family.”

Once more the doctor  glanced about the room, then turned back to  address Margaret. “I’m Doctor
Broderick. I  just finished operating on  your father’s kidneys.  It was touch-and-go for  a time,
trying to figure out  why his heart rate was so  low. The blood work-up tells us he  was bitten by a
black widow  spider. The slower  heart rate probably  saved his life and  kept him from  bleeding to
death–along with his simple will to live. I pulled a handful of wood slivers from his spleen; some
had penetrated his liver. The orthopedic surgeon has almost finished pinning

THE IDENTITY CHECK

143

his broken legs. I  think he’ll be just fine–he’s tough–but it’ll  be several weeks, maybe
months before he’s back on his feet. He’s going to need a lot of help.”

Margaret stood and smoothed at her dress. “How soon can we see him?”

“It’ll probably be  a few hours before  he’s out of recovery.  Why don’t I call  down to the
cafeteria  and let  the hospital  buy you  all a  hot meal.”  The doctor,  considering the  matter
settled, folded his glasses and slid them in his shirt pocket.

Margaret almost started to protest, but was cut short by Cap’n, who asked, “They still cook that
halibut?”

Dr. Broderick smiled. “They  sure do.” He escorted his guests to the  elevator and instructed an
aid to see that they  were well cared for. Margaret remained behind for a  few minutes to explain to
the doctor the trauma Nurse was experiencing.

The papers were finally resorted and filed. Mitch, unable to find the title to the GTO, knew he owed
Stephanie an  apology. His growing  hatred toward  Vinnie, however, was  too strong. He’d  have to
postpone patching up  the domestic spat until after  he returned. He wasn’t about to  try and tell
her where he  figured the missing title went.  The young Chicano posing as Jose  Vasquez had invaded
his home,  he was  sure. The  home would  have been an  easy mark.  The GTO’s  glove box  held the
registration showing his address and the garage door opener. Before the day was over he would change
the code on the  motor. In the meantime, simply unplugging the motor  would keep anyone from getting
in. Mitch marched past  the bathroom without saying a word to his  bride. She’d stopped crying and
now stood at the mirror,  blow dryer sweeping up and down her hair. Deciding  it was still unsafe to
drive the Camaro, Mitch pulled the Escort from  the garage, manually brought down the overhead door,
and puttered off to find Bino. He planned to borrow the much-needed funds to make a rent payment and
leave some cash for Stephanie to use while he was away.

He could only  guess what a loan  from Vinnie might entail. The  look in Bino’s eyes  a few nights
earlier had been ample warning. The vocational competition  now seemed very low on Mitch’s list of
priorities. In fact, if there was any hope of a refund on his plane ticket and 144 KEN MERRELL

hotel reservation, which  he’d purchased months in  advance, he’d give it up  altogether. But it
might all turn out  for the best. The school was  counting on him. And four days  away just might be
the thing they both needed. At least it would buy him some time.

Dressed in her  Sunday best, Stephanie made ready  to leave. She wasn’t sure why  she’d lit into
Mitch the way she did. Why had she nagged him about church? Forcing him to God wasn’t the way. Her
minister had counseled with her on several occasions about the rift it was creating. She knew he was
right–that Mitch would need to decide for himself. Yet  it was the same every week: she’d ask if
he was  coming, he’d make up  some excuse, they’d both  be cranky for several  hours. But today,
he’d been downright mean.

She opened the door to the garage. “My car!”  she muttered at seeing the empty space. “He knew
I was going  to church, and still took  my car.” She clomped  down the steps to where  the car had
been parked and  tugged through her dress at  the band squeezing her waist.  The offending pantyhose
kept slipping down to her  hips. Reluctantly, she went over to the Camaro,  slid into the low bucket
seat, and reached overhead to  click open the garage door. The empty visor  again brought her to her
feet, only to find  the pantyhose halfway down around her knees. She  swore under her breath, tugged
the hosiery down,  and sat back into the  seat to pull them from  her feet. No way was  she going to
spend the day wearing sweaty panty hose and fighting to keep them glued to her expanding waistline.

When the  push-button switch at  the kitchen door  failed to open  the garage door,  the frustration
finally  spilled over.  She  squeezed the  wadded  nylons into  a  ball and  banged  it against  the
dashboard. Mitch  had kept her  from her Sunday  worship. Had it been  on purpose? It  was possible.
She’d noticed some subtle  changes in his demeanor the last few days.  Until that very moment, she
hadn’t realized how distracted he’d been acting.

Mitch never  expressed his feelings  openly, but instead  seemed to wear them  on the inside  of his
tool-chest, protected, often by humor, sometimes by silence, but most of all by a hard, locked metal
door. Today, maybe, by anger. She’d learned to read him pretty well, and usually found ways to pry
his feelings out using gentle persuasion. Now she had no idea what to do.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

145

The Husky parking lot was empty. Janice sat in her booth reading a book, her back to where Mitch had
parked. The air conditioner  rattled and hummed, leaving the woman completely  unaware he was there,
sliding the glass aside.

The woman  jerked around,  stifling a  gasp and  dropping the book  in her  lap. “Oh–my  land of
sunshine! . . . Mitch, you scared the bejeebies out of me!”

“Oh, sorry,” he said. In  fact, he’d meant to startle her. A mean  streak had begun to unravel
inside his  chest. He  felt justified  in harboring  thoughts of  retaliation. He’d  hoped somehow
sneaking up  on her  would make him  feel better. It  hadn’t. “I  wasn’t even sure  anyone was
here,”

he lied. “Where’s your car?”

Janice was patting her chest and breathing rapidly. Her cheery cheeks seemed flushed from the scare.
“I’m too old to take much of that. I think my heart may have missed a beat.”

A twinge of guilt washed over Mitch. She wasn’t the one to blame.

“I’m sorry. I should have knocked first.”

“It’s okay.” The kindly woman exhaled again. “It  was such a beautiful day I decided to walk
to work.  I might regret it  this afternoon, going home  in this heat. .  . . Any luck  finding your
car?”

“Nope. I think I’m wasting my time.” The air  inside the booth smelled like it had been forced
through a  tobacco-caked cooling  system. Mitch  averted his  nose and  breathed in  shallow sniffs.
“How can you stand the foul air in here?”

“My late  husband–rest his miserable  soul–was a  heavy smoker. Bought  him an early  grave. I
lived with it 39-plus years.”

“Sorry.”

“Don’t  be. He  was an  abusive pig–no  conscience. My  two children  still blame  me for  not
protecting them from his violent  outbursts. I guess that’s why I put up  with Bino. He’s a good
man at heart,  but just doesn’t see what he’s  doing to himself. Or maybe he  just can’t stop.
Half the time I think he wants to die and just get it over with.”

“Speaking of Bino, I need to talk to him. Do you know where he lives?”

“Not far from  here. I gave him a  ride home once when his  car broke down. I don’t  think I can
remember how to get there, though.”

“What’s his first name–I’ll look him up.” Mitch glanced past Janice to the 146 KEN MERRELL

desk, where  Bino’s daughter smiled sweetly  from the photo  on top. Janice, finally  catching the
hint, fished a thick phone book from one of its drawers.

“It starts with  a B. . .  .” She paused. “He’s  named after a great,  great grandfather who
founded a town in Texas–first  law man in a long line of sheriff  ancestors. Poor Bino. His family
won’t let him forget it, either.” Her brow crumpled  in thought as she opened the book and tried
to remember. “D,” she whispered. She flipped through the pages.

“Daniels. .  . . Let’s  see. Bernalillo  Daniels. That’s it.  Bernalillo, New Mexico,  was the
town.” Her finger  slid across the page. “Lives  at Coran and Rancho, Lilly’s  Trailer Park. I
don’t see a trailer number, but if I remember  correctly you need to enter from the north. Stop at
the office–they’ll have a map.”

A car pulled into the  station and an older man stepped from the vehicle  to the pump. Janice stood,
flipped the reset  to the pump, and slid  open the window. “Good morning, Mr.  Moore.” Her voice
rose several  decibels so  the old fellow  could hear  her. “You  must be doing  a lot  of driving
lately. This is the second time you’ve been in this month.”

Mitch slipped from the other  side of the booth and pulled out of  the station, heading northwest on
Rancho. Coran was only a few blocks farther down.  Bino’s place wouldn’t be hard to find, not if
his Audi was parked next to it.

Stephanie  milled about  the house,  trying to  decide if  she should  be mad  at Mitch  or be  more
attentive to his needs.  His stress, after all, surely was related to  their financial woes. Maybe a
good home-cooked meal would put a smile on his face  and they could sit down and talk before he left
town.

The phone’s ring brought Stephanie  to the kitchen wall near the stack of  bills. A quick check of
the caller I.D.  was a safe move. It  was the landlord. She  let it ring. There was  nothing to tell
him. Mitch would take care of it–just like he always did. Where was Mitch, anyway? It was close to
noon.

A quick pass through the kitchen cupboards rounded up a half a bag of coiled vermicelli, two chicken
bullion cubes, a can of refried beans and a can of spinach. Not much of a selection, but the sort of
food Mitch  seemed to  enjoy. She’d top  the meal  off with  the only vegetable  in the  fridge: a
partial head of cabbage fried in lots of butter. Mitch had

THE IDENTITY CHECK

147

learned to  cook from his  grandpa. His meals  were quick  and not so  bad, if one  liked everything
fried.  Granted, when  it  came to  kitchen  skills  he was  the  better cook,  and  they both  knew
it–though Mitch always gushed about how much he loved her cooking.

They’d made it  a habit of having  lunch at home on  Sundays, together. Mitch always  had it ready
when she came  home from church. The hot meal  always brought a smile to her  face and helped acquit
him of his  broken promises about attending church. She  was an easy mark, quick to  forgive. A kind
deed–or breaking bread together–could tame even the most savage mood.

148 KEN MERRELL

NINETEEN

MITCH PARKED A FEW SPACES behind the Audi. He

remained in the  car, surveying the dilapidated, ethnically-mixed, forty-year-old  trailer park. Two
trailers down was parked  a late-model, full-size Chevy two-door, its chrome  glittering in the sun.
Its two Hispanic occupants, both wearing backwards  baseball caps and designer sunglasses, leaned on
the horn,  the wail  only barely  audible over  the throbbing beat  pounding at  the windows  of the
surrounding trailers. The car sat low, its  soft under-belly only inches from the crumbling asphalt.
A young  man, similar  in appearance  to the other  head-bobbing Mexicans,  bounded from  the broken
screen door  of the trailer and  propelled himself through  the sleek automobile’s open  door. The
car’s squat tires  squealed and the front end  vaulted from the ground, angling  skyward. The back
end of the car followed. When the car approached a faded yellow speed bump that stretched across the
road, it slowed to a crawl. The gangly,  pigeon-toed car eased prudently over the bump, dropped back
near the ground, and once more bounced off to the beat of the music.

Mitch smiled to himself as he watched the engineering fiasco hop down the narrow drive.

Bino’s turquoise trailer was a single-wide with  roll-out slatted windows. Most of its ramshackle,
sun-bleached metal skirting  lay on the ground, exposing  the cinder blocks that held  up the frame.
Litter dotted the cobweb-infested ground under the trailer.  Mitch got out and walked up to the tiny
three-step porch. When he placed his foot on  the weathered 2-by-4s, the entire structure rocked and
swayed, moaning at the load. Taking care not to put all his weight in one spot, he inched his way up
onto the shower stall-size landing. The smell of cigarettes oozed from the cracks of the windows and
door, forced outside into the hot, dry air  by a window-mounted swamp cooler. The squeaky, vibrating
contraption leaked precious drops of

THE IDENTITY CHECK

149

life down the faded siding, forming a muddy puddle on the ground. At the edges of the puddle, a tall
harvest of grass and weeds had sprung up. Mitch  knocked on the hollow door, which left his knuckles
coated with a chalky, turquoise paint residue. He wiped them on his jeans. Bino’s distinctive hack
preceded his raspy voice. “. . . Who is it?”

“Mitch Wilson.”

The trailer shook at  the approaching footsteps. Bino unbolted the door and  thrust his head through
the smoke-filled  gap. “What  you doing  here?” His squinty  eyes hadn’t  yet adjusted  to the
light.

“I need to talk to you.”

“How’d you find me?”

Mitch smiled. “In the phone book . .  . Bernalillo. Bino brushed off the perceived slight. “What
do you want?”  He hugged the door and shot  an angry glance in the direction  of the street. Mitch
followed Bino’s  gaze. There, walking a  stocky bulldog on a  leash, was an overweight  man with a
close marine haircut. The dark, tattooed arms and  six-inch cigar trapped in his lips cast a lasting
impression. Mitch turned back to face his adversary. “Can I come in, or do you want me to talk out
here where everyone can hear?”

“Can’t it wait ‘til later? . . . I’ll be at  the station . . . later this afternoon . . .”
The man  on the street  stopped, staring over  at them. He  reached up and  drew the cigar  from his
mouth, then spit on the ground. Mitch tapped his foot impatiently; he needed to get some answers.

“I’m leaving town, remember?”

Bino hesitated and drew a breath. Finally he relented, easing the door open.

Mitch entered  the darkened room and  allowed his eyes to  adjust to the stale,  barroom atmosphere.
Sound equipment  boxes, stacked ceiling-high, covered  not only every  inch of wall space  but every
window as well. Each  stack was marked as a different item. “Quite  an inventory,” Mitch mumbled
under his breath.

“It’s not what  . . . it looks  like,” Bino started to explain through  sporadic wheezes. “I
buy the close-out . . . and defective merchandise

. . . from two major electronics . . . manufacturers. . . .”

“I know. Janice told me.”

“The kids  buy it .  . . cause they  think it’s hot.  The price is  as good . .  . as if  it was
stolen.”

150 KEN MERRELL

Mitch surveyed the  room. A single overstuffed  recliner sat alongside an  overburdened ashtray. The
recliner faced a big-screen TV, which flashed a life-size dose of porno into the dismal setting.

“Hey, but I’ve  never . . . sold you  anything that’s . . . defective,”  Bino hastily added,
reaching for  the remote.  “Sorry. My  . . .  Sunday afternoon  entertainment.” The  screen went
blank.

Mitch punctuated the point of his visit. “I need a loan.”

Bino dragged his  oxygen tank from the door  to a small kitchen  and stuck the mask up  to his nose.
Then he  slid a cheap  plastic seat from  the kitchen over to  the easy chair  and sat down,  out of
breath. “I was afraid . . . you’d come asking. How much?”

“Five grand.”

Bino pointed at the recliner. “Have a seat. . . . A loan? Can’t do.”

“What do you mean can’t?”

“Don’t have that much. . . . It’s all in inventory.”

Mitch lowered himself awkwardly onto the edge of the easy-chair.

“You told me the other night . . .”

“You want  hard cash . .  .” Bino butted  in. “I know. .  . . But Vinnie’s  money’s dirty.
I’ve decided . . . I won’t loan it to you.”

“Hard cash?”

“A loan you can’t  ever . . . pay back. Five plus  interest . . . makes ten, add the  fees . . .
and you’ll owe twelve . . . plus a few favors. When

. . . you make the payment . . . a day late . . . you owe a few more . . . favors.”

“I can handle Vinnie.”

“Sure! That’s what I  thought . . . two years ago. Now  . . . I gotta jump off .  . . a speeding
train with . . . both arms and hands . .  . tied behind my back. . . . Kind’a like suicide. I’ve
decided . .  . it’s time to  do it. . .  . Got to give you  . . . credit  for giving me .  . . the
courage. You woke me  up . . . the other night .  . . when you jumped the fence. .  . . I realized I
was . . . stabbing my friends in . . . the back.”

“We can take him on together.”

“Look kid . . .” Bino’s laugh ended up in  a coughing fit. When he’d quieted it, he went on.
“You’ve been living .  . . a sheltered life where  most people do what . .  . they say they’ll
do. This’s a  different world. . ..  You step onto Vinnie’s turf  . . . you’ll  never get off.
He’ll . . . own you, lock, stock . . . and air tools . . . ‘til you’re dead.”

“He’s already got my tool chest in the trunk of my goat.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

151

“Write it off and . . . stay clear. He wants . . . the rest of your . . . inventory, too.”

“Inventory?”

“He’s squeezin’ you, kid.  . . . Don’t you get it?  You didn’t . . . take his  offer . . .
and he don’t take no for an  answer . . . he needs a good . . . body,  fender and paint man. . . .
The last one quit . . . and went to work for Mike.

. . . Haven’t you put . . . two and two .  . . together yet? He knows . . . you’re short on cash
. . . and he wants you in . . . his back pocket.”

Mitch’s eyes blinked. It was as if a light had come on inside his head.

“Vinnie killed the guy?”

Bino brought a finger up and touched the tip of  his nose. “But don’t really know. . . . Vinnie,
Clint . . . Ty, Franky, his  . . . friends from Jersey? . . . What does it  matter . . . who did it?
Everybody knows he’s

. . . the  one responsible. . . . He  practically brags about it. ‘Course, nobody .  . . can prove
it. He’s ready . . . to hang it on some other  . . . sucker, ripe for the picking. . . . A message
. . . to everyone else . . . not to screw with him.”

Mitch shook his head. “You lost me.”

“Don’t matter.  Said way .  . . more than  I should’ve .  . . anyway.  I’ve got . .  . three
hundred and change. .  . . Pay me back . . .  later, no fees–if I’m . . . still  around when . .
.” A second coughing spell bit off Bino’s words.  He looked up, teary-eyed. “In a few months .
. . I should have a

. .  . a couple’a  grand. It’s .  . . yours, too.”  He pulled a  wallet from his  back pocket,
emptied it of cash, and pressed the money forward.

“You’re talking crazy. If you’re in that much trouble, go to the FBI or something.”

“Been there, done that . . . and now I’m here. Look . . . I’ve lived a life . . . after my own
making . . . rebelled against the . . . family  traditions . . . trashed my body and . . . destroyed
the lives of those . . . that depended on me. . .  . Now it’s time to pay . . . the conductor or .
. . get off the train. And . . . I’m getting off.”

Bino stood, drew a smoke from his pocket and pressed  it to his lips, then stepped to open the door.
“You can’t get on . . . this train kid. It’s full.” The unlit Camel fluttered up and down in
Bino’s  lips. “Besides,  its .  . .  final destination  is Hell  . .  . and  you don’t  belong
there.” He drew a lighter  from his pocket and lit the cigarette, then aimed  it at the open door.
Mitch stepped onto the  rickety landing. “You even try . .  . to get on and I’ll .  . . have the
cops on you . . . so fast you’ll think 152 KEN MERRELL

you’re .  . . drowning. Remember,  I . . .  got a whole  family full . .  . of ‘em. Have  a good
trip.” Bino shut the  trailer door in Mitch’s face. Mitch stood on  the porch, stunned. He could
hear Bino hacking from inside his self-imposed dungeon. A string of domestic screams emanated from a
trailer three or four doors down. He slowly climbed from the landing and into Stephanie’s car. Now
what was  he going todo? The  little car started, sputtered,  and quit. What was  that? he wondered.
Maybe it did  need a new fuel  pump. Mitch cranked over  the ignition again. The  little car purred.
Strange. . . .  Next stop would be Mike’s to pick  up a few tools for his trip.  The weight of his
financial predicament seemed to grow heavier by the hour.

Stephanie sampled the fried cabbage and added more salt.  The green glow of the clock on the counter
said one o’clock. And Mitch wasn’t back. The cabbage was rapidly becoming too soft and the beans
too dry. She lifted one  bare foot and rested it in the back of the  opposite knee as she turned off
the burners to the stove. Her ankles were feeling a bit swollen.

I’m sorry, Mitch. Maybe I  did mess up your files. It’s been so longsince  I’ve been in them I
can’t remember . . . She rehearsed the lines in  her mind. She wanted to be the first to apologize
this time, beat  Mitch to the punch.  He always was so  quick to say “I’m  sorry”–even if he
wasn’t in the wrong. It wasn’t that way for her growing up. Everyone in her home blamed everyone
else. No one ever used the word “sorry.”

It was from Mitch  that she’d learned the power of those simple  words. Within seconds an “I’m
sorry” could suck the  fire right out of a fight. Stephanie retreated  to the living room, propped
her feet  up for some Bible  reading, and tried  not to be cranky  about the meal getting  cold. She
could hear Al and  Joan quarreling next door. Before a minute had  passed, their screen door slammed
shut and a coffee cup crashed out on the driveway.

I’m sorry  I upset you with  my comments about church.  I’ll wait ‘til you’re  ready to come
with me,  Stephanie repeated again, wondering  which apology would be  best to start with.  Then she
opened  her Bible.  Mitch  pulled up  to the  locked  gate of  Mike’s  Body Shop  and rattled  the
chain-link fence. Mike always came from the trailer to open up if

THE IDENTITY CHECK

153

it was  locked, but no one  stirred. “Mike, you there?”  he yelled. Still no  response. Mike’s
brown 4x4  was parked next  to the trailer  where it normally  sat. Either Mike  was in the  can, or
something had to be wrong. Mitch had a hunch it was the latter.

Hoisting himself  up, Mitch perched  himself precariously on the  wobbly gate, straddling  the three
strands of barbed wire that ran along the post. Not a very comfortable position, he thought. Gaining
some leverage, he rocked his body and pushed off over the gate, dropping into the yard.

Hands cupped around his eyes,  he pressed his face up to the small window at  the bay door. The shop
was dark. Everything was in its place. The  locked door confirmed the fact that Mike wasn’t there.
Making his way  to the adjacent trailer, he banged  on the flimsy door. Still no  answer. He reached
for the doorknob.  It, too, was locked. But as  he drew his hand away, the  door clicked open. Mitch
shot a guilty look toward the street, then pulled open the door and called,

“Mike, you here?”

The  bathroom was  the only  place in  the small  trailer outside  of Mitch’s  view. Dirty  dishes
cluttered the tiny stainless steel kitchen sink, providing nourishment to several dozen flies. Olive
green carpet and color-coordinated  curtains dated the place. The fold-out bed  was down and unmade,
and the trailer smelled moldy–in  a dry sort of way. Mitch shooed at  the flies buzzing around his
face and  rapped on the bathroom  door. “Mike?” It seemed  strange that Mike wouldn’t  be here
when his pickup was parked out in the yard. Mitch reached for the knob.

“I wouldn’t do  that if I were you,”  a voice boomed. Mitch jumped and  wheeled around. There,
his head poked through the doorway, was Mike, a wide grin across his face. “Plugged toilet; smells
like a dead rat in there.”

“Crud, Mike, you scared the crap out of me.”

Mike chuckled and  swung the door wide. “That’s  what you get for snoopin’  in another man’s
castle.”

Mitch didn’t even crack a smile. “I wasn’t snooping.”

“You weren’t? Looked  to me like you  were about to open the  door to my commode.  What if I’d
been in there on my throne?”

“It’s just that you didn’t answer, and your truck was here.”

“Lighten up, man. Givin’ you a hard time, is all. I just picked up a 154 KEN MERRELL

customer’s car and was bringing it back. You need a few tools for your trip?”

“If you don’t mind.” Mitch exited the trailer.

As they made for the shop, Mike pulled his greasy  hair up over his thinning scalp and took his keys
from his  pocket. “What’s up?  The GTO still  got you  down?” He slowed  his step to  wait for
Mitch, then reached over and gave him a slap on the back.

“No, I’m fine.”

“Right. . . you are. You look like someone just killed your best friend.”

He fit the key in the door.

“Money’s just a little tight.”

“You were countin’ on the sale of the goat to pay the bills, weren’t you?”

Mitch nodded. “Rent’s way past due; credit cards, too.”

“Them cards’ll screw you up somethin’ awful. Don’t own a one of

‘em anymore. The ex and  her cards got me in more trouble than I care  to think about.” Both men
entered the shop  and Mike flipped on the  lights. “I’ve been askin’ around about  your car. I
think I got a possible lead.”

“Forget it. I already know who has it, and it’s not worth the trouble.”

Mike glared  at the  corner of  the room, where  a hidden,  voice-activated camera  took slow-motion
pictures of their visit. Linked to a concealed microphone, the surveillance equipment recorded every
move and word of their conversation. “Who do you think took it?”

“Doesn’t matter. Best thing for me to do now is see if I can find a buyer for the Camaro.”

“That’s it? Mitch Wilson, state champ, four-point-O student, daddyto-be’s just gonna bend over
and take a screwin’ from some punk Mexican kid?”

“You  trying to  tick me  off?” Mitch  calmly asked.  “Because if  you are,  it won’t  work.
There’s a lot more at stake than a car.”

Mike stood with  his back to the camera, his  eyes doing a dance between Mitch  and the garage door.
“You ain’t got the guts!” Mike sneered, his  voice rising. “You’re gonna let six months of
your own  sweat and  blood drive  away, and  do nothin’ about  it.” Mitch  was staggered  by the
display. Mike sounded angry, but somehow his face didn’t look angry.

Mitch was growing more confused by the second. “What’s the mat-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

155

ter, Mike?”

Mike  bent over  a tool  chest drawer  and began  tossing tools  into a  canvas bag.  As he  did, he
whispered out of the corner of his mouth, “Just  get mad at me and walk out. I’ll explain later.
. . .”

“What?”

“Walk out!”  Mike banged the tools  on the work bench.  “Get the hell out!”  He clenched his
teeth and jaw.

Still puzzled by his boss’s behavior, Mitch headed for the door.

“Later,” he said.

Mike snatched up  the bag of tools and  cut Mitch off. “Hold on–better take  the tools!” Mitch
stopped in the  doorway, completely off balance. Mike  slapped at the light switch,  locked the door
and walked silently toward the gate, Mitch in pursuit.

“What was that all about? You smelling too many paint fumes or something?”

Mike’s voice lowered. “Just open your trunk and pretend like you’re arguing with me. Trust me.
. . .”

Mitch glanced around to see what the show was all about, then popped the trunk. The second it opened
Mike flung  the tools  inside and  slammed it  down. Again, in  contrast to  his actions,  his voice
remained calm. “Now, get in  . . . drive two blocks down and wait for  me in front of Chandler’s
Electric. Got that?” He pumped his arms in a threatening gesture and waved Mitch off.

Mitch climbed in  the car and backed  away from the gate. What  inthe world is going  on? Bino talks
like he’s going  to die, Mike’s lost hismind  . . . . I  don’t need any more of  this. When he
reached the electrical outlet he drove right on by. Then, about three blocks past, he pulled over to
the curb to  sort it all out.  Wait a minute. .  . . How did  Mike knowthe car thief  was Mexican? I
never told him that. . .  . The last body andfender man went to work for  Mike. What does he have to
do with allthis? I’m not a coward–I just can’t take the risk. My kids aren’t goingto grow up
without a  dad. . .  . He wrestled  with his  thoughts, then asked  himself, What would  Grandpa do?
He’d fight, that’s what. Mitch turned the car  around and pulled up in front of Chandler’s the
same time Mike arrived. I’ll  just see what he has to say. Mike obviously  wasn’t in the mood to
pussy-foot around. “Park it and climb in.”

“You’re nuts. Not until you tell me what’s going on.”

156 KEN MERRELL

Mike  climbed from  his car  and walked  around to  the passenger  door of  the Escort,  placing his
forearms on the open window  jamb. “I’m going to lose my butt for this. .  . .” He took a deep
breath. “Truth is, I’m  FederalAgent Mike Hale.” He pulled a badge from  a garter strap at his
calf.

“A cop!” Mitch opened the driver’s door to climb out. Mike stopped him. “Hear me out, Mitch.
I couldn’t talk in the shop because we were being monitored. I’ve wanted to bring you in and put
you on our team. But the ASAC thinks you’re as dirty as the next guy.

“ASAC?”

“Assistant Special Agent in  Charge. Matter of fact, I’m the one who’s  kept the Vegas PD from
picking you up for the armed robbery the other night.”

“Dammit! I didn’t  rob anybody. Doesn’t anybody  understand? I saved the guy’s  life. He was
about to blow his brains out.”

“That’s not how the conductor saw it.”

Mitch’s heart began to race. “Screw the conductor! All he saw was me trying to make sure the guy
was okay.”

“Why didn’t you go to the police?”

“Look, the thing brought back some ugly memories, okay?”

“I’ve seen your file; I’ll take your word for it.  But we need to talk to my boss–both of us
together.”

“I thought you were my friend. This whole time you’ve been playing me . . .”

“Right now I’m  your only friend. I just  put my tail on the  line to tell you what  this is all
about. If I don’t lose my job or get demoted to some desk job it’ll be a miracle.”

“That’s how you knew about the Mexican kid?”

“I’m the agent assigned to this case until I get into Vinnie’s pocket, or even close. You’re
my only chance. I’ve been following you the last few days.”

Mitch slammed  his palm  on the  steering wheel,  got out  of the  car, and  slammed the  door shut.
“You’ve been spying on me?”

Mike leaned his arms on  the little car, speaking across its roof. “Saw you  jump the fence at the
Husky the other night and scare the hell out of Bino.  Saw you stop by his place this morning. . . .
By now you know enough to get yourself killed.”

“How does Bino fit into all this?”

“Can’t say. Look, all you need to do is get me in the door. We’ll

THE IDENTITY CHECK

157

clear you of the possible  armed robbery charges and try to get your car back.  In the end, you walk
away free and clear . . .”

“Free and clear my eye! Last time a cop told me that I got six months.”

“Won’t happen.  I’ll take  it to the  press and  force the  issue, if I  have to.  I’ve been
warning my boss you were going to get hurt over this thing from the beginning . . .”

“I’m already hurt. I’m about  to get kicked out of my house, I’ve been  lying to my wife, my
car was  stolen–along with nearly  every tool  I own–I think  somebody’s been playing  with my
credit, and now you’re kicking my butt. I’ve  got no protection at all, man.” Mitch raised his
hands in the air to emphasize the point.

“Just get me in the door. That’s all you need to do. I give you my word.”

Mitch turned his back and sank down on the front fender. “What do you have in mind?”

“How soon is your flight?”

“What time is it?”

“Two.”

“Four hours.”

“Good, we’ve got  time. If we can see Vinnie  before you go, we’ll get a  ticket for your wife
and send you both out of town a few days.”

“No, no, no. I don’t want her involved in any of this.”

“All she’ll know is you’ve decided to take her with you–get a little R and R. With any luck,
I’ll be in the door far enough to keep you clear when you get back.”

“With any luck. . . . And if you can’t get in the door?”

“We’ll deal with that when we come to it. Here, call  Bino and tell him you need a job and a few
bucks.” Mike drew out his phone and dialed.

“He won’t do it.”

“Tell him.” Mike handed over the phone.

Mitch held it to his ear and threw Mike a nasty look. The phone rang once and Bino answered.

“It’s Mitch. Say, I need that job you mentioned, and a loan.”

“Like I said . . . you’re over your head, kid. . . . Way over.” The phone clicked.

Mitch flicked the phone on the seat between them. “I told you–he 158 KEN MERRELL

won’t do it.”

“Not so fast. You’re going to need it.”

“He told me he won’t help. He’s done stabbing his friends in the back.”

Mike waited. The  phone rang. “It’s for you,”  he said. Mitch punched “on”  and raised the
phone. “Yeah?”

“Three Queens . . . on Bridger. Dial 2113 . . . at the elevator.” Bino hung up.

“Three Queens on Bridger,” Mitch repeated.

Mike nodded. “That’s Vinnie’s thirteenth-floor  penthouse. Now we’re getting somewhere. Give
him some  song and  dance about  you changing  your mind ‘cause  I’m going  out of  business and
you’ll be out of work. Look his shop over and  tell him you need equipment. And make sure he knows
we come  as a package. .  . . I’ll supply  all the equipment. Remind  him that you’ll be  gone a
week, but you can start  right away when you get back. He’ll want to talk  to me about terms. Call
me  on this  number.” Mike  jotted  his cell  number on  a Post-it  and  slapped it  on the  dash.
“Don’t take his money. I’ll wait for your call.”

“But I’ve got to pay the rent.”

“Don’t worry. I’ll have the agency take care of it tomorrow.”

“I don’t like this one bit.”

“It’ll be fine. I’ve never lost a snitch yet.”

Mitch started to get back  in his car. Mike tapped on the hood to offer  one last word. “If anyone
ever asks about the deal in the shop a few minutes ago, tell ’em you finally got pissed off enough
about your car to do something about it.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

159

TWENTY

THE ALLEY TEAM ASSEMBLED around Eddie’s bed. Each gazed down forlornly at the broken, stick-figure
body lying beneath the  set of crisp, spotless sheets. Ragged and tired,  Greg gazed past Smitty’s
shoulder at  the mirror above the  hospital room sink, staring  at his reflection. He  looked pretty
much like the  rest of the shabby  gang–possibly worse–with his week’s growth  of thick beard,
splotchy, sunburned skin and unwashed hair.

“Oh how the  mighty ones fall,” he mused. The  quietness of the room prompted him  to ponder the
sequence of events that had brought on his demise.

It’d all started  innocently enough three years before  at a New Orleans trade show.  He’d had a
few  too many  cocktails  at the  closing reception  and  was busy  dropping  a few  dollars at  the
casino’s craps  table, when a skinny  blonde slid her  tiny pile of chips  up next to his.  Lo and
behold, their  number came up.  Attached to the  blonde, Greg  noticed, was a  pair of long  legs, a
slender figure, and a gorgeous smile. Afterwards, they got together for drinks. They didn’t really
do anything  wrong, just a  quick kiss when  he won his first  hundred bucks. The  whole tantalizing
episode proved only to whet Greg’s appetite for more.  In a way, he’d hoped that one thing would
lead to another, but  by the time the night was  over he was five thousand dollars  in the hole, the
blonde was kissing some other high-stakes patsy, and he’d slunk back to his room, tail between his
legs, a kicked dog who’d had his first taste of blood. He spent the night licking his wounds–and
dreaming of  winning the jackpot,  the leggy blonde  at his side. .  . The following  morning he’d
found his sanity restored. His five thousand  dollars, however, was still long gone. Returning home,
he’d sat  in conference with  his minister, confessed his  sins–both actual and  those committed
‘in his heart’–and vowed never  again to set foot in a casino. The  only problem was that that
nasty, mesmerizing taste of 160 KEN MERRELL

blood stayed with him, and  grew more appealing as the days dragged on.  He’d sit in his high-rise
office, looking out  across the valley at the  hotels and casinos reaching ever higher  on the Vegas
horizon. Every day,  week after week, the  thrill of those first  few wins grew bigger  in his mind.
Maybe it was  the kiss, a sensual reward that  came with the big score at  the craps table, together
with the titillating, frightening flicker of hope that  the blonde trophy would wind up in his hotel
room that night. Maybe it was her putting her chips on his number, and the number coming up. Any way
he looked at it,  he’d sipped from an intoxicating cocktail, and now  he was hooked–in more ways
than one. He,  the casino and the  blonde were a threesome,  his thoughts always on  the lookout for
more excitement.

His minister had counseled  him to pray to overcome his weaknesses, and  he had. Day after drawn-out
day, night after miserable night, he prayed. But  each time he’d allow his thoughts to wander back
to the image of  that captivating blonde posing under the harsh casino  lights. Why hadn’t he quit
when he was up two thousand, bought her a drink, and . . . no, he wasn’t going there again. He’d
already been there hundreds of times in his mind.  It was the base thoughts, or perhaps the illusion
of power, that  finally dragged him back to the  Strip, back to bondage. He was  just going to check
out some obscure  casino, roll a few dice, blow  fifty or a hundred bucks, and  dispel, once and for
all, the  notion it could have  been any different.  Then he could weed  the whole thing out  of his
mind. But, by some lucky curse, an hour later  he walked out four hundred obscene dollars richer. Of
course it was chump  change. Linda, his wife, hadn’t even missed the  five thousand he’d lost in
New Orleans. Or  if she did, she hadn’t  said a word about  it. She was too busy  spending the big
bucks his Yahoo stock was bringing in. She relished having her own line of credit cards; seven to be
exact. His six  made thirteen between them,  with four or five  new offers coming in  the mail every
day. Skymile cards, car-rental cards, shopping-spree cards, vacation  cards . . . they had them all.
The new house on the edge of the country club golf course and two luxury cars in the garage were any
man’s dream. But somehow  it wasn’t enough. The giddiness of a simple  craps game and the danger
of a  skinny blonde called to  the animal in him.  On his way home  that night, he’d swung  by two
other of the smaller casinos–won a little, lost a little–but no heart-stopping blondes ever

THE IDENTITY CHECK

161

scooted their chips up next to his. That’s when  he decided that either the dream needed to die or
it needed a fresh thrill to help maintain its luster. The luster came in the form of a phone number.
A day or two later, while looking up the  number for Kitto’s Take-out, there, jumping off the page
and splashing  in his  face, were the  words Kitty’s  Escort Services. On  impulse, he  dialed the
number. “Hello, Kitty’s . . .” the sultry  voice had purred. But at that moment his conscience
had kicked in, almost a sense of panic, and he hurriedly hung up the phone. A second call three days
later got him as far as asking if they had any tall, skinny blonde girls with beautiful smiles. They
referred him to their website, and that’s when trouble started hitting the fan big time. . . .

It was Sound who dragged Greg back from his memories. “Look he’s waking up!”

Eddie opened one  puffy eye, the other being too  swollen to budge. The groggy old  fighter eyed the
horde of hazy faces, groaned, then lapsed back into unconsciousness.

Mitch pulled up to the main lobby of Three Queens and parked his car in the ten-minute zone. A young
pimple-faced valet scampered  from the front door  to meet him. “Sir,  I need to ask  you to move.
That space is reserved for a guest of Mr. Domenico’s.”

Already standing outside the car, Mitch responded, “Maybe I’m his guest.”

“Are you Mr. Wilson?” Mitch  nodded. “So sorry, sir. If you’ll let me  take your keys, I can
park your car.”

“What’s wrong with where it’s at?”

“Nothing, sir, I’ve just been instructed to treat you extra good.”

Mitch wasn’t at all that keen on accepting any favors from Vinnie.

“Then leave me and the car alone.” He reached for the front door.

“Now you wouldn’t want me to lose my job,  would you?” the young man replied. “No charge, no
tips.” He stuck out his hand, palm up. Mitch looked the kid in the eye. He was serious. “You’d
lose your job?”

“It’s only my second day.”

Mitch reached  in his pocket and  tossed him the keys.  The young valet grinned.  “Thanks, man–I
mean, sir. I’ll take good care of it.”

At the elevator Mitch dialed 2113. Vinnie picked up. “Mitch, glad 162 KEN MERRELL

you came.” Mitch stepped into the elevator and glowered  up at the camera in the upper corner. The
lights in the panel  blinked to twelve, the highest number, but didn’t  stop until the floor above
that. When its doors parted,  Mitch stepped out onto a plush white mat  of carpet that blanketed the
expansive penthouse  office. Vinnie pushed back  on his white  leather executive chair and  stood to
greet his  guest. Modern art  adorned the walls.  Luxurious, all-white couches  and chrome-and-glass
tables rested on leopard-skin  throw rugs, each facing inward where  a large-screen digital computer
sat mounted in a  see-through glass desk. Miscellaneous tables and bookstands  were scattered in odd
locations around the room. On them stood nude figurines, cast in bronze.

“Welcome,” Vinnie said, smiling. “So you had a  change of heart. Take a seat.” He pointed to
an  over-stuffed easy  chair. “What  can  I get  you  to drink?”  Sophistication and  Vinnie’s
tough-guy attitude and Jersey accent didn’t make for much of a match.

“Nothing, thanks,” Mitch said, a little terse.

“A hot spring day in the desert and you ain’t thirsty?”

“I don’t drink.”

“A man with self control. . . . How’s about a soda?”

“Pepsi.”

Vinnie pulled  two sodas from the  wet-bar fridge and  took a seat  on the couch across  from Mitch.
“The glass  shows every little  thing,” he said,  placing a Three  Queens coaster on  the coffee
table. “Now, how can I help you?”

“You mentioned something about a job the other day . . .”

“Right. Offered good money, generous perks.”

“The offer still open?”

“Yeah, the job’s  still available, but deals  change. Little thing called supply  and demand. Or
better yet, leverage. From what I hear, Mike’s shop is closin’ down.”

“Guess so.”

Vinnie smiled. “Tough break, kid.”

Mitch decided  the clown was  having too much  fun and steered  the subject away  from compensation.
“What kind of equipment do you have?”

“The best. Just upgraded the place a year ago. Wanna see it?”

“Before considering a job I always take a long look at the working

THE IDENTITY CHECK

163

conditions.”

“Good. I like a man to know exactly what  he’s gettin’ into.” Both men stood and Vinnie drew
his suit coat from the back of his desk chair.  Greg wandered from Eddie’s room to find a place to
rest from his all-night rescue. The Alley Team, at the insistence of the head nurse of the unit, had
placed Nurse in  the empty bed next  to Eddie’s. One of  the orderlies who frequently  came by the
room to  check on Eddie  seemed more interested  in Nurse  and the Alley  Team than in  his patient.
Leaning his head against the wall, Greg’s thoughts  once more began to drift. The website. I never
should have looked at it. Sure enough, Kitty’s site had featured a long-legged, skinny blonde. She
wasn’t nearly as stunning as the girl in New Orleans, but it didn’t take long for his fantasy to
replace the mythical face and dazzling smile with one he could actually look at. “Rayna” was her
chatroom name, and boy did she know her stuff, all the right buttons to push to keep him coming back
for more. His computer romps were listed as

“professional services” on his credit cards, and Greg made sure he was always the one to pay the
bills.

By that time  Linda was basking in their  wealth and had joined several clubs  and women’s groups,
while still  faithfully serving  on the  PTA. She  remained active in  her church  as well,  even as
Greg’s activity dwindled. Soon the Yahoo stock,  like most other technology stocks, was riding the
roller-coaster wave of up-and-down  gains and losses. His broker assured him  it was only temporary,
to just hang in there and ride it out. But shortly blue chip prices began dropping and he had to lay
off several  key positions.  Through it all,  his boss  assured him  that his own  job would  not be
affected. That’s when  the strange sequence of  calls had started. At first  he’d dismissed them
simply as mistaken  identity. No, he didn’t live on  La Jolla Avenue, and never had.  . . . During
one of his  chatroom forays, Greg had mentioned to  Rayna about his New Orleans fantasy.  It was she
who’d suggested they give it a try. They could  meet at the little-known Three Queens, shoot a few
craps, and see  if there was any  chemistry. If only she’d  known what kind of  chemistry would be
unleashed. . .  . If Greg’s wife  had only known. Indeed, when  he was with her,  he found himself
constantly 164 KEN MERRELL

thinking of Rayna. Too many times he pushed his luck, until finally he pushed it right over the edge
. . .

“Excuse me. Excuse me, sir, you can’t sleep in here. Sir!”

Greg’s eyes opened. A square-jawed nurse was shaking his leg.

“What?” He sat up and dusted the visions from his head.

“You can’t sleep  here,” the nurse frowned,  her jowls quaking. “This is  a hospital waiting
room, not  a YMCA. I  need to ask  you to  leave. There’s a  policy against loitering  on hospital
premises . . .”

“I’m not loitering. I’m . . . I’m here visiting a friend.”

“Come on; up you go.”  The brawny nurse tugged at Greg’s threadbare shirt  until he was on his
feet. “Don’t give  me any trouble, or I’ll call  security. . . .” Her hand  on his shoulder,
she guided him in the direction of the elevators.  “Come on now, out, out, out!” She pressed the
‘Down’ button.

He hobbled into  the elevator and slouched against  the wall, abandoned. His legs  felt rubbery; his
eyes sunken and hollow from lack of sleep. When the elevator jarred to a stop on the main floor, the
throng waiting to enter the elevator parted to let him out. Neither nurse, orderly or visitor wanted
to be within ten feet of him. The stares  and snickers were arrows piercing his splintered soul. The
sun beat down  unmercifully on the side  of the old building.  Painted on its brick  facade were the
faded and peeling  words “Carson Body Works,” named  for the street it was  housed on–the same
street as  Eddie’s Gym, Kitty’s Escort  Services, American Bio  Medical, and half a  dozen other
fronts. Carson  Street ran  one block  south of  Bridger, both of  which shared  the alley  with the
parking structure of Three Queens.

The two men  halted in front of the metal  door. Vinnie punched in its security  code. “Can’t be
too careful  these days,” he remarked  as his thumb entered  a second code into  the alarm keypad.
“I don’t come  here much. Matter of  fact, after you start  work you won’t see  me here again.
See, I  plan on making you  the head man.  Your name’ll even appear  on the lease. I’m  just the
landlord, far as you’re concerned.”

The spacious  shop was  clean and  mostly empty, excepting  the equipment,  which, at  first glance,
appeared top-of-the-line. “I thought you had a few employees.”

“Had a hard time keeping it rented, but I never once tried to run the

THE IDENTITY CHECK

165

place. Bought the equipment from  the original owner; brought it up to standards  and leased it as a
package.”

“You said you’d pay a salary.”

“I’ll supply enough referral work for the shop to make money. The rest’ll be up to you.”

“I’m going to need some help, and some additional tools.”

“Your call. What’d you have in mind?”

“Mike. He’s closing shop. I don’t see any frame equipment here . . .”

“Haven’t had much  need for it–nor do I see  any need for a second-rate body  man. My work’s
strictly restoration.”

Mitch swallowed. “I need it–and him.” He lowered  his chin and swallowed again, trying to keep
his  voice modulated.  “He  could get  the shop  set  up while  I’m  out of  town at  vocational
finals.”

“Oh, yeah, the competition.”  Vinnie pursed his lips and nodded in thought.  “Bino told me you
was a real hot-shot at state. Where’d you learn it?”

“An old man I know. . . . Now about the frame equipment and Mike.”

Vinnie thrust his  hands in his suit-pant pockets  and momentarily turned his back.  Then he wheeled
and  faced Mitch,  smiling. “I  think it’ll  work out  fine. I’ll  make you  both part  of the
contract. Why don’t you give Mike a call and have him come down. Phone’s on the back wall. . . .
Listen, I got a little  business to see to. When he gets here, the two  of youse look around and see
if he likes the place.  We’ll finish up when I get back.” He  turned towards the exit. “Oh.”
He spun back around. “Take a look at the paint  booth. The best money can buy. I’ll show you how
it works later.” With that, Vinnie walked out, slamming the heavy door behind him.

Mitch made the call, thoughts of how to get his tail out of the ugly mess he was in far out-weighing
his recent domestic squabble. The Bible resting on her tummy slipped to the floor with a thud.

“Mitch? Is  that you?”  she called out  in a  sleepy voice.  The reading had  lulled her  into a
peaceful Sunday afternoon nap. She stirred again.

“Mitch?” Sitting up and massaging at her kinked neck,  a stretch and a yawn brought her the rest
of the way to her  feet. After checking the garage to see if the Escort  was back, she looked at the
time. Four  o’clock. I’ve been  asleep three hours.  It wasn’t like Mitch  to be gone  so long
without phoning her. Something’s 166 KEN MERRELL

going on. She reflected on the situation. Money pressures . . . short tem-per . . . he took my car .
. . and now he’s going on a trip. She smiled.

“That’sit!” Mitch’s  problems weren’t  money-related. To  him, money  wasn’t that  big a
deal–only a  slight irritant. But he’d  never been on an  airplane before. That was  it–he was
afraid of flying! Often  he’d make subtle comments about the dangers  involved. An airplane, after
all, “is just a machine,”  he’d say, “a pile of nuts and bolts  put together by an underpaid
mechanic and flown by an overworked pilot.” There were just “too many things that could go wrong
up there. . . .”

With the  exception of a  few butterflies just  before their wedding,  Stephanie had never  seen her
husband afraid of anything. The thought of having  children, him going back to school, their renting
a house in a terrible neighborhood–he’d never batted  an eye. He’d taken on rusty old jalopies
that should  have been cut up  for scrap and  made them look like  new. Dogs, the local  gangs, even
going to the state competition . . . they didn’t bother him in the least.

But in getting ready for the trip Mitch had been considerably more antsy, even finicky. He’d moved
out the GTO, given her her own garage door opener, had constantly warned her about Al Kostecki. They
all related  to the trip. She  knew a little about  psychology and human behavior  from her freshman
year of college. Mitch, having  lost his father, was feeling a bit of  separation anxiety. It has to
be that, she decided, a renewed spring in her step.

From the  hospital’s main  lobby Greg made  his way  out the door  and found a  quiet spot  in the
courtyard, where he lay under  a tree. He relaxed the muscles in his face. An  hour or two snooze is
just what the doctor ordered. Besides, he’d never even officially met Eddie. His being there might
only serve to confuse the old man when he did  wake up. He stared up at the leaves fluttering in the
dry, desert wind. Ninety  degrees was almost tolerable in the shade, but  the scorching summer, just
around the corner–that’s when it would get miserable.  So far Greg had found being homeless less
work than  being employed.  He squeezed his  eyes shut  and pictured his  children. Devin,  a fourth
grader, had  been looking forward to  his summer vacation. He  dreaded going back each  fall. On the
contrary, Larine, his eight-year-old, never wanted school  to end. She drank it up. She particularly
loved reading, which was probably a result of Linda’s hour of bedtime stories each night.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

167

What a woman, he thought. How on earth could I have  done what Idid to her and the kids? It was just
last summer,  ten months earlier. He’d  parked behind Three  Queens and entered through  the back.
Rayna would  recognize him  by his khaki  slacks and light  green golf  shirt. He’d never  been so
scared in  his life.  He’d tried to  wrestle his wedding  band from  his ring finger  just minutes
before–to no avail. Then his trembling, sweaty hands  clutched a stack of ten-dollar chips. As per
plan, he sauntered over to one  of the craps table and leaned over to place his  bet . . . The noise
from the children’s psych  ward filled the quiet courtyard, adding a  suitably riotous backdrop to
Greg’s daydream. “Ten dollars on 13.”

The bet was lost. He’d stepped to another table. “Twenty on 13.”

“A hundred on thirteen,” a soft voice cooed. He could almost feel the sumptuous heat at his side
. . .

“I told  you, no loitering on  hospital premises.” Greg  felt the brunt  of a sharp kick  on the
bottom of his  heel. “This is the same stinkin’  bum I kicked off the fifth  floor.” This time
the square-jawed nurse was accompanied by a security guard, who bent to help Greg to his feet.

“Come on, buddy. Let me help you out,” the guard said in a tone much more forgiving than that of
the nurse.

“Wash  your hands  after  you touch  him,”  sneered the  nurse  as Greg  was  escorted from  the
courtyard. “You never can tell what he might have.”

The old guard’s  grip slackened on Greg’s arm.  “The woman’s a witch. Don’t  know why they
keep her around,” he whispered. “I can’t imagine she helps those poor kids none, either. Look,
buddy, help  me out a  little and try  to stay away  the next twelve  hours while she’s  on shift.
It’ll make both our lives easier.”

168 KEN MERRELL

TWENTY-ONE

STATE OF THE ART was  an understatement, as far as the paint booth  was concerned. After finding the
light switch, Mitch wandered in, out and around the high-tech room. Back home he and his grandpa had
rigged up a big fan and a few make-shift filters to keep the dust off a new paint job. They’d also
discovered that if they took a hose and squirted  down the floor before they painted, it helped keep
the dust down. That was about as ‘high-tech’ as it got.

The  college spray  booth had  been a  more fancy  setup. Equipped  with halogen  lights, a  bank of
filters, semi-clean floor  and walls, and a fan that  exchanged the air every few minutes,  it was a
major step up. But this room was off the  charts. A series of heavy plastic grates formed the floor.
This grid was built up off the plastic pan to allow the air to be pulled down through and circulated
to the outside. The walls, bolted to a heavy  metal frame, were made of the same tough plastic, kind
of a Teflon composite, slick and dust-proof. And the room was spotless.

“Where’s  Vinnie?” Mike  asked, spinning  Mitch  on his  heels. “His  car’s out  front.”
Apparently the guy had a habit of sneaking up on  people. It must be the Federal agent in him, Mitch
decided.

“I don’t know, but you ought to take a look at this booth. Makes yours look like the inside of a
garbage can. Odd thing is, there isn’t any air intake, just these little nozzles everywhere.”

“A down-draft setup of some sort . . .”

“Forced air,  to be  exact.” Vinnie  stepped into  the paint  booth behind  Mike. “‘Positive
pressure,’ they  call it. This  one’s customized.  I had them  add in a  paint-stripping system.
Actually, it was Jimmy’s idea.”

He shook his head. “Shame he got to use it just that once. . . .”

An uneasy chill washed over  Mike. He hadn’t been able to reach Agent Barnes  to tell him where he
was going. He had called  and left word with division, but if trouble  arose they wouldn’t be much
use since the case wasn’t yet priority status and Mitch wasn’t officially an

THE IDENTITY CHECK

169

operative.

“You remember Jimmy, don’t you, Mike?” Vinnie pulled the door shut, his face a cruel mask, one
hand in his jacket pocket, the other on the door to the booth. Not a shred of his earlier cordiality
remained. His heels clicking softly on the grate-work, he sidled up to within three feet of Mike.

“Poor Jimmy. I invited  him down to look over the  new system. Asked him if he  wanted his old job
back. Told him I’d double what you was payin’

him. . . . Reminded him we had a contract.”

Mitch stood,  paralyzed, at the  far end of  the booth, the tension  thick, palpable. His  chest was
heavy, his knees weak.  “I’ve got a–a flight to catch,” he stammered.  “Can we get on with
the contract so I can get going?”

Mike, his eyes  wide with fear, grimaced at Mitch  as if to tell him to  “Shut up!”, Vinnie took
advantage of the split-second distraction. With cat-quick reflexes, he whipped a plastic bag-encased
gun from his pocket, pressed it to Mike’s temple and pulled the trigger. Mitch’s question echoed
faintly, then the room fell into a deafening silence.

Mitch finally persuaded himself to blink. Then he looked on helplessly at the horrifying, rapid-fire
sequence unfolding before his eyes. Only one of  Mike’s eyes remained focused on Mitch. The unreal
gaze told all:  every bit of shock  and terror, anger and  anguish, pain and regret  were wrapped in
that one grave stare. Then  his eyes squeezed shut and his legs buckled  beneath him. Sagging to the
right, his left hand curled across his torso in a fruitless effort to break his fall.

Through  it all,  Mitch’s  feet had  remained  glued  to the  floor,  his gaze  now  fixed on  the
grotesquely slumped figure. When  what seemed like hours had passed, his  eyeballs swivelled to take
in Vinnie, his  hand covered with a latex glove.  A few drops of blood were  sprayed across his hard
face and  down his  silk suit. He  stepped close, squatted  low and  peered into Mike’s  face, and
asked, “You a cop, Mike?”

Mike, in an instant, no  longer saw the hard face of the cold-blooded  killer, but felt the emotions
as  his failing  mind scanned  the memories  of 40  plus years.  They surged  through his  heart and
thoughts. He saw his grandmother  sitting on the porch of her old farm  house waiting for his family
to arrive for a visit, his bride waiting at  the alter, the sadness of his first dogs passing having
been struck by a car in front of his  fathers home. The visions tightened and narrowed like a funnel
as the blackness began to close in. Vinnie reached  down and patted the dying man’s chest, a tinge
of regret 170 KEN MERRELL

in the  gesture. “A .38  never was my  first choice in  a hand gun.”  Then he raised  the weapon
again. Mitch turned away. A second blast  went off, sending shock waves reverberating throughout the
tiny room. When the thunderclaps had ceased, Vinnie’s cold complaints erupted in Mitch’s ringing
ears.

“Damn! Another thousand-dollar suit down the drain!”

Mitch cast another ill-advised glance  at the body, a lapse of judgement he  would regret. A jolt of
nausea tore into him. He fell to his knees and started to retch.

Vinnie stood  over him,  grinning. “What’s  the matter,  kid? You  said you  wanted to  sign the
contract, didn’t  you?” He  turned and  walked back  near the  door. He  removed his  jacket and
dropped it  on the floor  in front of  the stricken man. “I  did the same  thing first time  I saw
someone’s brains leakin’ outta their head. I was twelve. The old man slapped me ‘side a’ the
head . . . told me to toughen up.” He kicked off his shoes and shook the plastic bag that held the
weapon. “See  this gun?” Vinnie  shook the bag  again. “Like I was  sayin’ I swore  out loud
I’d kill the old man for what he did. He told  me when I was good enough to do it, the time’d be
right for me to take over the business.”

After removing a small package from his pocket  and putting it between his teeth, the killer dropped
his pants. Then he tossed the gun, bag and all, on top of the crumpled pile.

Mitch didn’t answer or look up. He just knelt there, numb from what he had just seen.

Vinnie continued  to undress until  he was down  to nothing  but his boxer  shorts and socks,  and a
large-caliber, holstered gun suspended over his shoulder. Taking the package from his teeth, he tore
it open. Inside was a disposable towel, with which  he started to wipe himself down. “Hey, I asked
you a question. Ever seen that gun before?”

Mitch stared down at the .38, unable to speak. It did look slightly familiar. Vinnie turned his back
and stepped from  the booth. Mitch’s gaze  fell on the door, back  on the gun. He  closed his hand
into a hard  fist to stop it  from shaking. Then, assuming  a crouching position, he  inched his way
forward.

Vinnie stepped back in the doorway and hung a garment bag on the open door. “Go ahead, kid. If you
think you’re good  enough.” He unzipped the bag.  “The gun came from your Camaro.  One a’ my
boys found it–same day he  picked up the title to the GTO.” Draping a  fresh blue shirt over his
shoulders, he added, “I’m bettin’ your prints are all over

THE IDENTITY CHECK

171

it. If they are, you  just killed your cop friend. If they ain’t, you walk  outta here a hero when
you tell the  cops what you saw.  Be your word against mine.  Course, I never been  busted for armed
robbery and  the cops  ain’t lookin’  for my  red Camaro. So  who do  you think  they’re gonna
believe?”

Vinnie pulled  on some  pants and snapped  the suspenders  at his  chest. He pulled  his gun  up and
strapped it down, then dropped a new pair of shoes  to the floor and stepped into them. By this time
Mitch had shaken off  the sick feeling that was tearing him in  two. Vinnie–again changing face as
rapidly as he’d changed his clothes–reached up and  tapped on the wall. “This booth, here, can
take the  paint off a car  in thirty seconds,”  began the seemingly unfazed,  cold-blooded killer.
“After the  paint stripper has done  its job, a high-pressure  blast a’ soap and  water from the
same nozzles  rinses and neutralizes  the natural-based  paint remover. With  Jimmy, I ran  out a’
stripper. All that was left was a bag a’ bones. Gathered ‘em up and scattered

‘em in the desert. See, I always take care  of the details personally. That way I don’t have any
reason  to stay  awake nights  worryin’. But  you,  my friend,  have a  lot to  worry about.  That
beautiful lady a’ yours . . . ain’t she been tryin’ to choose baby names?”

Mitch clambered to his feet. Teeth clenched and  nostrils flaring, he snarled, “You stay away from
her!”

“Like I said, I always take care a’ the details–personally.”

Mitch made a move for  the pistol on the floor. Within a fraction of a  second, Vinnie had drawn his
large caliber gun and hunkered  down at Mitch’s side. Grabbing him by the  hair, he jammed the gun
into  his patsy’s  cheek. “Like  my daddy  said to  me, I’m  sayin’ to  you: When  you think
you’re good enough,  the business is yours. Meantime,  I suggest you take that trip  to the finals
and give our new partnership some thought.”

Vinnie gave a grunt, shoved Mitch’s head forward,  put the gun away and pulled his jacket straight
at the collar. Then he pointed at the door.

“Out front to the right, past Eddie’s Gym, turn  at the alley and you’ll be in back a’ Three
Queens’ parking. Have the valet  bring your car to the front of the hotel. I  got a few details to
tend to.”

Still in  shock, Mitch hesitated, then  stumbled past Mike’s  body, still staring at  the revolver
nestled atop  the heap of clothes.  If he’d just  gone to the police  in the first place,  or even
waited while the  old engineer had called them, Mike  would still be alive. Out of  the body shop he
went, down Carson Avenue past Eddie’s Gym, and turned into the clut-172 KEN MERRELL

tered alley.  It was  as if he  were floating  above the  ground; the whole  thing seemed  like some
terrible nightmare.

Vinnie, meanwhile, still in  the shop, carefully removed several strands of  Mitch’s hair from his
fist and tucked them between Mike’s limp fingers. Several more he twined in the buckle of the dead
man’s  watchband. After  pulling on  a bulky  pair of  plastic coveralls,  he walked  to the  back
overhead door and pushed it up. Stephanie’s little car sat in the alley. Starting it up, he pulled
it inside the  building and closed the  door. Wallowing in turbulent thought,  Mitch staggerd behind
the gym, teetered against the dumpster, and collapsed  against the wall of the old building. The two
most harrowing  moments of his life  collided in the  recesses of his  head as the battered  door of
memories fell from its rusty hinges. A torrent of horror, grief and sorrow tore at his throat like a
trio of demons.

Mitch slid down the brick wall to a sitting  position and rested his head on his knees. He struggled
to take  a breath, a  cleansing breath, any  breath. For some reason  he felt dirty,  completely and
utterly contaminated. In his mind he fought to  fast-forward the videotape, to ease the vivid burden
of a seven-year-old boy finding his father in the garage, dead.

“I hate him! I hate  him!” Mitch remembered yelling on their way home  from the school play. His
dad had promised to be there “no matter what.”

“I’m sure he wanted to, dear. Something must have come up.”

“That’s what you always say. You’re always making excuses forhim.”

“That’s enough, Mitchell! Your father’s under a lot of stress right now.”

“How do you know?”

“I beg your pardon, young man.”

“I hear you fighting.  You ask what’s wrong. He says everything’s okay  and not to worry. Then
you cry. It makes me mad. I hate him!”

Replaying the  scene for the thousandth  time, Mitch hopped from  the car and slammed  the door, his
mother calling after  him. For some reason the  garage door wouldn’t open. Again  and again he’d
hit it with his  fist, the bottled-up emotions spilling over. Even a  sevenyear-old had been able to
tell that something was dreadfully wrong, espe-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

173

cially during those  last few months–but no one was  willing to talk about it. His  dad had buried
himself in his work, and the harder he worked the less time he’d given his son.

Mitch raised his head from  his knees, his eyes, bathed in tears of  anguish, still clamped shut. It
felt like he’d stepped out  of his body, and now he was reliving  those frightful minutes that had
so altered his life,  releasing all the jumbled emotions he’d kept stashed  away for 15 years. The
adult Mitch dropped his head back to his knees.

“Mitchell Wilson,  you better  not upset  your father again!”  she’d called  out as  he bolted
through the  front door. “I’m warning  you, youngman, he has  enough to worry about  without you
nagging him, too.” Mitchell had slammed the front door behind him and headed for the garage. Maybe
his father  would notice him if  he fixed the  door or crashed on  his bike or something.  He surely
hadn’t  cared about  any other  of  his accomplishments  lately.  “I’ll show  him,” the  boy
sputtered as he threw open the door from the kitchen.  In the shadows, his dad appeared as if he was
asleep at the  wheel. Mitchell remembered the sandpapery  sound his feet made when  they had tromped
down the  steps. How  could he be  sleeping at a  time like  this? “Dad, you  prom-ised!” he’d
cried, and opened the door. Immediately, he knew  something was terribly wrong. He reached to tug on
his father’s sleeve, when he heard his mother burst into the garage.

“Mitchell,  no!”  The  boy’s gaze  had  turned  for  a  split  second, then  returned  to  his
father–whose limp,  blood-smattered body slumped from  the cab. It seemed  to come at him  in slow
motion, collapsing on  top of him, trapping the  boy’s gangly legs beneath the heavy  torso. As it
fell, the pistol in  his father’s hand hit the floor and exploded,  sending a bullet whizzing past
Mitchell’s head. Even over the gun’s report, Mitch remembered the sound his father’s head made
when it struck the  concrete floor, the distorted face bouncing next to  his own. Open lifeless eyes
staring into his own.

Mitch’s face  turned upward  and his  eyes sprang  open. There  was blue  sky above.  “No!” he
screamed, his fists slapping the pavement.

“No!”  The  horrific  howls  reverberated  down  the  alley,  to  where  Greg  Hart  neared  the
carpet-covered entrance to Nurse’s  shelter. The hair on his arms stood on  end. He’d thought he
was alone in the sweltering, afternoon heat.

“Who’s there?” he called back. No one answered. Greg surveyed the 174 KEN MERRELL

alley. The shrill  sound had come from close by.  Kneeling low, he peeked under the  greasy frame of
Eddie’s old Ford, then around the corner of the garbage bin.

Blind to the fact someone had heard him, Mitch was still trapped in his hideous, hypnotic trance. As
she pulled her  terrified son from the garage,  his mother had screamed, “No Mitchell,  I told you
no! Now look whatyou’ve done!”

A hand touched him on  the arm. The scream suddenly became the voice of  a man, asking, “You okay,
bud?”

Greg stood over the trembling man. “Hey, buddy, you alright?” he repeated.

Mitch’s head  shot up, smacking  hard against the  brick wall. His  eyes inflamed and  swollen, he
stared up into the man’s kind but unkept face. “Fine,” he answered. “I’m . . . fine.”

Greg stepped back to give the dazed man some room. “Can I give you a hand?”

“No. .  . .  No.” Mitch  trembled like  a child,  blinked hard,  and ran  his hand–raw  at the
knuckles–through his hair and down the back of his newly bruised scalp. “I’ve got to go.” He
dragged himself to  his feet and lit out up  the alley, climbed the concrete barrier  to the parking
lot and disappeared  between the rows of parked  cars. Wondering where he’d seen  the face before,
Greg rested  against the wall, still  weary from lack of  sleep. The rattling of  an overhead garage
door captured his attention. He peered between the  dumpster and the protruding wall of the adjacent
building. At the  end of the alleyway, Greg saw  a gangster-type man poke his head  from a bay door,
his eyes scouring its dark recesses in a cold stare. A few seconds later, a white Escort rolled from
the shop into the alley. The man climbed from the car wearing a pair of white coveralls and began to
strip a pair of latex gloves from his hands. Disappearing back inside, the bay door cranked shut.

Summoning the energy, Greg  staggered from the wall and weaved his way  down the alley. The fleeting
thoughts of  better times,  clean socks, a  shower, and a  craving for  some of the  simple comforts
he’d once enjoyed gnawed  at his memory, like the stiff leather rubbing  against the open sores on
his feet.  He yanked  at the frayed  laces and  removed the  shoes. The slap  of eager  tennis shoes
against pavement again caught his gaze. Down where the Escort was parked, a pimple-faced kid in

THE IDENTITY CHECK

175

a green jacket  climbed inside, gunned the little  motor, drove the puttering car past  Greg and out
onto the street.

Barefoot, Greg  tiptoed across the  alley and  climbed into the  sweltering yet secluded  comfort of
Nurse’s home. In a  matter of moments his thoughts traversed the breach  of time, from what he’d
given up through  greed and lust to the stark  reality of his current state. The  soiled linens upon
which he lay  supplied the painfully stark  reminder. Greg lay still, hovering  between the twilight
moments of thought before restful slumber transports the mind into a fantasy world.

His credit card troubles had  only just begun when the phone calls started.  Then came the call that
would ruin his life. At first Greg thought it was simply a mistaken address. Before he knew what had
hit him,  he was fighting  off an  aggressive campaign of  five different collection  agencies, each
trying to recover  its massive losses. Videotapes from  Three Queens and the other  casinos had been
beyond compelling. The courts were convinced he’d been leading a double life. The public Greg Hart
was the devoted  family man, aggressive executive, sophisticated stockholder.  The private Greg Hart
was the wild ladies’ man carousing with a known sex offender and obsessed with gambling, booze and
spending.  The damning  testimony  from  Rayna and  the  resulting confession  to  his  wife of  his
infidelity had sealed his fate.

Unfortunately  for him,  the  apartment  on La  Jolla  was vacated  and  emptied  of its  elaborate,
card-purchased furnishings  before any serious  investigation was  begun. The slight  differences in
signatures was easily explained away by Greg’s drunken lifestyle. And the late-night hours he kept
building a struggling company  was colored as an alibi for his  extracurricular activities. His only
outright confession of guilt had been of his one-and-only foolish ‘visit’ with Rayna. Other than
that, he’d  declared his innocence on  all the other charges.  Greg tossed and turned  as twilight
fell into sullen darkness. Before too much longer,  rest had become deep sleep. Still, the nightmare
continued to play out over and over again in his mind. 176 KEN MERRELL

TWENTY-TWO

THE DEATH  GRIP he  had on the  steering wheel  was completely subconscious.  Mitch, from  under the
canopy of Three  Queens, stared straight ahead, past  the coming and going guests,  past the traffic
and the line of taxi cabs on Bridger, past  the pimple-faced valet standing beside his car, past the
ugly images  burned on  the back of  his eyelids.  His gaze was  fixed on a  phone booth  across the
street. If he had any chance of solving the spate of new problems that had collapsed all around him,
old emotions,  he decided, had to  be reined in.  Twice he’d chosen  to run from his  problems and
twice it had been to his demise. Now he was through running. Mike deserved more than an acid bath on
the floor of a paint booth, and Mitch wasn’t about to take the fall for Vinnie’s vicious murder.
But he  couldn’t allow Stephanie  to get hurt,  either. So, what  next? Vinnie had  him positioned
squarely between the viselike grip he held and the confinements of the pending law.

Mitch sighed deeply. His father had failed to  deal positively with adversity; his mother, too, to a
lesser extent.  And though Mitch recognized  he wasn’t to blame  for either of their  actions, the
seven-year-old in him still carried the guilt.  The anger and suffering and despair and hopelessness
he felt after  his father’s death had never gone  away. Grandpa was the strong one  of the family.
Backed  into a  corner, Mitch’s  old role  model seemed  to tackle  a good  fight like  a seasoned
veteran. Hard  work and determination, employed  smartly, that’s what  would save a man.  He often
turned to his  tiger analogy to illustrate. “It’s  like grabbing a tiger by  the tail,” he’d
preach in his gruffest voice. “Don’t grab on ‘less you’re willin’

to hold tight ‘til it’s over. Just ‘cause you want to quit fightin’ doesn’t mean the tiger
does. So take a good look before grabbin’ hold. If it’s right to fight, you’ll feel it in your
gut. If it ain’t, then swallow your pride and let it pass.”

Mitch could feel  it, all right, smack dab  in the center of  his gut–and in his veins  and in his
head. The ‘tiger’ within was more than willing to fight.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

177

“Something wrong, Mr. Wilson?” the young valet asked through the open window.

Mitch snapped his head to the side. “You got a couple quarters?”

The kid  bent at  the waist and  squinted through the  window, his  youthful ears mulling  over what
he’d heard. “Quarters?”

“I need to make a call.”

“Sure.” The kid  dug into his pockets and  pressed two coins through the  window. Mitch snatched
them up, then started the car and pulled away.

“You’re welcome!” the kid hollered after him.

The accelerating little car struck bottom when Mitch hit the road. The thin traffic was pure luck as
he sailed across four lanes  without looking either left or right. Skidding to  a stop, he jumped to
the curb  and rammed the  coins in the  phone slot. The  words surged from  his lungs. “I  need to
report a murder.”

“Who’s calling?” asked the police dispatcher.

“There’s no time. The killer’s name is Vincent  Domenico and he’s trying to destroy the body
with acid. His red Ferrari’s parked in front  of Carson Body Works on West Carson. Hurry!” Mitch
slammed down the phone. Every  muscle in his body screamed for him to run;  every fiber of his being
told him to stay and fight. But how? If  Vinnie was destroying the evi-dence, and they caught him in
the act,  both of  us would be  implicated, Mitch  reasoned . If,  on the other  hand, he  wanted me
arrested, hewould’ve  called the  cops already. So  why hasn’t he?  Mitch maneuvered  the Escort
partway around the block, shut off the engine, slid low in his seat, and peered down Carson to where
Vinnie’s car  was still parked.  Just then Vinnie,  carrying a garment bag,  came out of  the shop
door. He  opened the Ferrari’s trunk  and lay the bag  inside. Glaring down the  street toward the
Escort, he secured the trunk and pulled his cell phone from his jacket.

The sound of a  phone’s musical call wrenched Mitch’s attention from  the street–and the three
Las Vegas PD  patrol cars, lights flashing,  that squealed up in  front of the building.  What was a
phone doing in the car? Unnerved, Mitch exhumed  the Mozart-playing gadget from under the front seat
and, punching the “Answer” button, pressed the phone to his ear.

“Shame on you  kid. Don’t care much about  your woman?” Mitch glanced down  the street. Vinnie
was smiling at him  over the hood of one of  the police cars. “Hope you get  to her before Frankie
does. . . . Well, looks like I gotta go. Call  me if you need any help with the details. You got his
phone 178 KEN MERRELL

now.” Vinnie terminated  the call and raised his  hands in the air. Mitch, unnerved  by the sudden
turn of events, gunned the Escort and aimed it towards home. He could hardly breathe. He stared down
at the phone, still in his hand. It was Mike’s. With the gas pedal pressed to the floor, he dialed
home. “Stef!” he said as calmly as he could.

“Mitch, where have you been?” The reply was sharp.

“I don’t have time to explain. Is everything all right?”

“Not exactly.” Stephanie paused, trying to decide if  she should hold her tongue or let him have
it for the cold meal sitting on the stove.

“What do you mean ‘not exactly’?”

“It’s nothing. How soon will you be home?”

“Is anyone there?” The urgency in his voice was evident.

“No. Mitch . . . what’s going on?

“You  sure? You  sound  a little  tense.”  Mitch was  almost yelling.  A  short silence  ensued.
“It’s just  that the food  is cold–that’s  what’s the matter.  And you’re yelling  at me
again!” More than a trace of anger had surfaced. “What’s the matter with you? You took my car,
you made me miss church . . . as if you even care!”

“I’m sorry, Stef, it’s just . . .” Mitch breathed out a bevy of frustrations and fears. What
could he tell her? Someone was on the way over  to do her in, is that what he should say? “Listen,
I’ve decided  not to go on  this trip. Make  sure the doors are  locked and don’t let  anyone in
until I get there, okay? I’m only a few minutes away.”

This was the most  severe–and strangest–case of separation anxiety Stephanie  had ever heard of.
“You’re not going?  Hey, it’s alright. Nothing’s going  to happen to me. You need  to go and
win the title . . .”

The sternness in her  husband’s voice hiked up a notch.  “We can talk about it as  soon as I get
home! Just keep the doors locked. Got that?”

Then he hung up.

Stephanie sank into the  couch. According to what she’d read, the only  way to overcome an anxiety
disorder was  to plow ahead, get  it behind you. She  dialed Maggie’s number. “Hi,  how was your
day?”

“Well,  Stephanie.  It was  nice.  I  had  a wonderful  morning  at  church  and now  my  youngest
daughter’s here to visit . . .”

“Oh, I’ll call back when you’re not with family.”

“Don’t be silly, dear, you’re family too. In fact,  I was just thinking about you. How are you
feeling?”

“Pretty good.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

179

“And how was church?”

“I didn’t make  it. That’s why I called. I  think Mitch is having a hard  time leaving on this
trip. He’s been on edge the last few days.”

“Hmm.”

“I think it’s  because of our loser-of-a-neighbor. Oh  . . . sorry, I know  I shouldn’t judge,
but the guy  gives me the creeps. The  other day he trapped me  against my car and asked  a bunch of
personal questions . . .”

Maggie broke in.  “Well why don’t you  come stay with me?  I’d love the company,  and we could
share a ride to work.”

“Oh, would it be all right? I hate to . . .”

“All right? It would be a treat. We could stay  up and talk–maybe even start on a couple of baby
quilts.” Stephanie did  her best to keep from  crying. Maggie always knew what to  say. “Now you
just tell Mitch you’re coming to my house while  he’s gone and that’s all there is to it. When
does he leave?”

“An hour and a half.”

“My goodness, you better start packing. Will you be taking him to the airport?”

“If he’ll let me. He’s been acting funny the whole day.”

“Well, you just insist. Men like those warm-fuzzy  goodbyes, even if they won’t admit it. I’ll
be expecting you around seven. We’re goingto have fun!”

“Thank you so much.” Stephanie wiped away a tear with the back of her hand.

“Nope. As  you can see,  no one  here’s been murdered.”  Vinnie, together with  several police
officers, stood in the middle of a spotless  paint booth. “The only chemical we have that’s even
close to acid  is a barrel of cleaner we  use to clean the paint gun  equipment. You’re welcome to
look around, but like I  told you, I just came down to show the place  to a client. Wasn’t feeling
so good, poor kid, and puked on the floor. I ran  the booth through a quick wash cycle to get rid of
the smell and keep it from drying.”

One of  the officers spoke  up. “If you  don’t mind,  Mr. Domenico, I’d  like to look  at that
barrel.”

“Right this way.”

Vinnie led him  to a drum that sat  in the corner of the dusty  shop next to a red  machine with Gun
Mate painted in big bold letters across the front. 180 KEN MERRELL

Underneath, in  smaller print,  it read:  Self-contained spray  equipment clean-ing  system. Cleans,
flushes and recycles  fluid automatically. EPA ap-proved.  The officer began prying the  top off the
drum with his gloved fingers.  Another officer knelt near the back bay door to  examine a set of car
tracks in the fine dust. Yet another, a younger cop, answered a call on his radio.

“That’s it,” Vinnie said,  rubbing his hands together in a gesture of  finality. “Now if you
don’t mind, I got a busy day ahead.”

“Did someone pull a car in and out of here recently?” the cop near the door asked.

Vinnie shrugged. “Could be. I store collectible cars here occasionally.”

The officer pressed the matter.  “What kind of car would it’ve been? By  the width of the tracks
and the size of the tires, I’d guess it was either a mid-size or compact car.”

Vinnie, clearly perturbed  by the questioning, took  a moment to consider his  answer. “Probably a
Mustang,” he replied. “My people bring

‘em down for a wash and dry.”

“Looks to me it might’ve  been a bit heaver when it left than when  it pulled in.” The officer
studied Vinnie’s face. “See, the tracks had less  tread touching the floor coming in than it did
pulling out.”

Vinnie let  out a snort.  “Who d’ ya’  think you are, Sherlock  Holmes? Maybe it  was movin’
faster. Or maybe it was a small truck and the  bed got filled with water when they washed it. Maybe,
maybe, maybe  . . .  it don’t mean  nothin’. Ya’ know,  I ain’t got  time for this.  Now why
don’t ya’ just gimme back my gun and get outta  here. I was nice enough to let ya’ in, and all
ya’ done is make accusations.”

The officer who’d been on the phone snapped the clip from Vinnie’s

.45 and checked the chamber. “Permit’s valid, but the boys downtown want you to come in and have
a chat with them about the one you claimed was stolen.”

“Yeah, I heard they found it when they pulled Eddie  from the wall. I already told you, he took it
from me after he assaulted me.” Vinnie thrust his  chin in the air and pointed at the ugly bruise.
“See where he popped me? Old man musta’ hit me with a brick ‘r somethin’.”

The officer who had opened the barrel of solvent  walked over. “Couldn’t have been his fist? . .
. Because if it was, that means you had your clock

THE IDENTITY CHECK

181

cleaned by a skinny old geezer.” All three officers laughed.

“Get out!”  He waited until  the last of  the cops was  out the door,  then broke into  a robust
laugh. “Bye, bye, boys,” he jeered, fluttering his fingers and inching the door closed.

The officers lingered  in front of the building,  chatting in a tight blue  triangle. “The guy’s
good–got to hand it to him. He came back with an answer for every question.”

“Could you tell the car was heavier just by the tracks?” asked the younger cop.

“Nah, I was pullin’ his leg. But the bozo didn’t  once call my bluff to argue that the car was
the same when it went in as it was when it went out. He’s as dirty as they come. These gangsters .
. . they’re all the same. Cruise in here from  back east thinkin’ they can just step in and open
up for  business. It won’t  be long before  the big boys get  tired of him  and squash him  like a
bug.”

“This is the second tip  we’ve received that this guy pulled off a murder.  I just wish we could
get our hands on one of the callers.”

“Not a chance.  They see someone’s brains splattered  on the ground and the guy  that did it’s
never been nailed for more than a traffic ticket.  You think they’ll come forward and just give it
all up? Yeah, right. Everyone of ‘em’s probably got a sheet a mile long.”

The officers  headed for their vehicles.  “So you don’t  think Mr. Domenico’d let  a forensics
team come check out the place?” one of them bristled sarcastically.

“Over his dead body.”

Vinnie waited until  the last car had pulled  away before jerking open the front  door and strutting
out into the sunlight. He didn’t mind being the brunt of their jokes; let ‘em get their jollies,
while he flaunted his masterful ability to get away with murder–literally. After opening the trunk
and removing the garment bag,  he returned to the shop and opened the cover  to the Gun Mate. Taking
the clothing from the bag, he dumped the load–bag and all–in the tray of the cleaning apparatus,
closed the lid, and pressed the auto mode button.  A casual dusting off of the hands was followed by
a cigarette pressed  to his lips. At the same  time, Mitch, finally at the end  of his panicked race
home, screeched  to a stop  in the driveway.  Twice he’d tried to  call Stephanie to  confirm that
everything was still  okay. Each time he’d gotten a  busy signal. He pushed the key  into the lock
and barged through the front 182 KEN MERRELL

door. “Stef!”

“In the  bedroom.” Her  voice was  cheerful and pleasant.  Mitch calmed  his nerves–to  a mild
hysteria, at best–and hurried down the hall, trying to best decide how to begin his eventful saga.
Stephanie was organizing her new clothes in a  suitcase lying on the bed. “What’re you doing?”
he asked, his face rife with confusion.

“I know why you’ve decided not to go, and I’ve solved the problem.”

“What?”

“You’ve been acting strange the last few days and I want you to know it hasn’t gone unnoticed.
I’m sorry I wasn’t more sensitive.”

“No, I’m sorry. None of this is your fault . . .”

“Mitch–please–let me finish,” she insisted. “You  always apologize first and now it’s my
turn.” She  looked him in  the eye. “I’ve  decided I haven’t been  very fair with  you about
church. I won’t ask you anymore about going. When you’re ready, I’ll be waiting.”

Mitch looked up. If she only knew. “Stef, it’s not that–”

“Wait, I’m not finished.  I was probably responsible for your file being  messed up, too. It’s
been so long I can’t remember, and you know how I am about cramming things into tight spaces. Just
look at my closet.” She stepped nearer and smiled.

“You don’t . . .” Mitch started before being cut short again by the tip of Stephanie’s index
finger against his lips.

“Shh, this is hard enough already. You have to  go to the finals. I’ve made arrangements to stay
with Maggie while you’re gone, so you won’t have to worry about me. I know you’ve been worried
about Al, but he won’t even know where I am.  You know I’ll miss you, but Maggie and I will have
lots of fun together. Besides, it’s safer to fly in an airplane than it is to drive a car.”

Mitch could no longer meet her enthusiastic gaze. He  realized how hard it must have been for her to
apologize. She’d  just bared  her soul to  him, and he  was about  to let his  deception continue.
She’d be safewith Maggie,  he reasoned. Then he could pretend to leave  town andfigure out what to
do about Vinnie.

Seeing her husband’s hesitation, her smile widened. “I’ve flown lots of times, and I’m still
here.”  She reached  out and  raised his  chin with  her fingers.  “Everything will  be fine–I
promise.” She kissed him softly on the lips.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

183

“Maybe you’re right.”

“Now I don’t mean to be rude, but you  smell deadly.” She winced and feigned holding her nose.
“You hop in the shower. I’ll finish packing my things and start on yours.”

Deadly, Mitch thought.  Vinnie’s the one who’s deadly.  Vinnie crushed the life out  of a second
smoldering butt with the sole of his patent-leather  shoe and approached the Gun Mate. The auto mode
light had just quit flashing  and the machine had spun to a stop. The  spray-gun cleaner was the top
of the line, promising “four chambers of spotless  equipment with every cycle. No residue build up
or corrosive deterioration to metal parts”–and it had fulfilled every promise.

Vinnie jimmied the residue basket from the drain and  shook the pile of debris into a plastic bag. A
smirk crossed his  lips as he reflected on  the surprise awaiting Mitch–or, better  yet, his sweet
wife–in the Escort. The same Escort that sat in the sweltering sun on Mitch’s driveway, slightly
heavier at the  back; the same Escort  that had struck bottom  when it sped onto  Bridger from Three
Queens;  the same  Escort that  had a  growing  puddle of  blood dripping  from its  trunk onto  the
scorching driveway. The kid would be back, no doubt, and details would need to be taken care of.

184 KEN MERRELL

TWENTY-THREE

DRESSED IN PINK PANTS, a flowered, loose-fitting top  with a stethoscope jammed in the pocket, white
tennis shoes, and  her dark hair pulled  back and tied up, the  R.N. stepped to the  bed adjacent to
Eddie’s and drew  a blanket up over  her patient. Nurse lay  soundly asleep, curled up  in a fetal
position–elbows to chest,  fists to chin, knees to  arms–in the comfort of a  dreamy escape from
the erratic twists and turns of real life.

The nurse was followed by a short woman wearing old-fashioned orthopedic heels. Her ruddy, weathered
face was covered  in part by a dark ‘60s  wig. A medium-green dress hit her  mid-shin, and a white
jacket, open at the  front, its numerous pockets stuffed with notepads, erased  any doubts about her
medical background: she was a psychiatrist–a ‘shrink,’ through and through.

“Good afternoon,”  the woman  in the jacket  whispered in a  soft Scandinavian  accent. “I’m
Doctor Wochik.” Her lips formed a miniature

‘o’ as she spoke. She turned to the visitors in the room. “You must be Eddie’s friends.”

With Nurse asleep, Cap’n glanced  from face to face of the little family,  as if inquiring who was
in charge. “Yes, ma’am,” he finally blurted out.

The doctor  addressed Cap’n,  speaking softly.  “Can you tell  me how  you found  him?” Before
Cap’n could  take a breath, she  stuck her hands  deep in two  of her pockets and  rummaged around
until one  hand came  out with a  pen and  the other with  a lined, spiral  notepad. Cap’n,  a tad
suspicious, looked to Ritter, Sound and Smitty for approval, then began. The tiny woman seemed to be
no threat  and the  police hadn’t  said a  word about  their breaking-and-entering  fiasco. Still,
he’d found it to be in his best interest to be leery of strangers.

“Why d’ you want to know?”

“My staff has expressed concern about your friend . . .” she took a

THE IDENTITY CHECK

185

quick look at the note pad, “. . . Rebecca.”

Cap’n stole  a glance at Margaret,  who quietly sat near  Eddie’s bed, then back  at the doctor.
“Name’s Nurse, and she took it real hard.”

The R.N. finished checking Eddie’s vitals before sliding  a chair behind Dr. Wochik. She, in turn,
took her time  getting started, first tugging at her  dress as she took her seat,  then crossing her
legs. Stretching her  tiny feet, she rested them  on tip-toes on the tile floor  and slowly recorded
some information on  her notepad, her pen methodically  retracing several of the words.  At last she
looked up and asked, “What do you mean by ‘took it hard’?”

“Like she weren’t there, but was, and talkin’ crazy ‘bout a baby.”

“Did she say who the baby was?”

“No, but Mrs. Thurston says it was Belle.”

Dr. Wochik jotted down more information before she looked up and repeated the name. “Belle?”

It wasn’t long before the Alley Team was fully  engaged in telling all about Nurse, Belle, and the
hard lives  they’d lived on the  street. In the  hard neighborhood partway across  town, Stephanie
zipped up her bulging overnight  bag and placed it on the bed next to  Mitch’s open duffle bag. He
hadn’t said much  since he’d been home. Now  he stood across the room,  preoccupied with tucking
his golf shirt into his loose-fitting jeans.

“I’ll be alright, Mitch,” Stephanie said again as she watched him slip into a pair of loafers.
“Is the flight still bugging you?”

Mitch absentmindedly ran his fingers through his thick, damp hair and pulled the collar of his shirt
down. “I guess so,” he muttered. “I’ll be fine.”

“You can do anything you put your mind to, honey. That’s what I love about you.”

Mitch gave a  half-hearted smile. He was thinking,  not about a plane flight, but  about the serious
predicament he’d gotten them into. He’d go to prison  for sure, if Vinnie turned the gun over to
the cops. And  if he went to  prison, he’d break his wife’s  heart. What he needed  was a little
leverage–maybe a lot of leverage–to turn the problem around. Maybe if he went to work for Vinnie
he could get the information he needed. Perhaps Bino would help. Or maybe he could just do the smart
thing and go to the cops and spill his guts. Maybe, maybe, maybe. . . . 186 KEN MERRELL

But this is what he would do. He’d drop Stephanie off at Maggie’s, drive back into town, stay at
home, as needed, and work out a plan. It would mean telling another lie to his bride, but it was the
only logical idea ricocheting around with the hundred other emotions cluttering up his brain.

“I put in your bag three pairs of pants, your work boots, three shirts, underwear, socks, and your
ditty  case with  toothpaste, brush,  razor and  shaving  cream.” Stephanie  bent to  pick up  her
suitcase. “I’ll put my bags in the car while you . . .”

Mitch reacted–“I’ll get that.”

“No, it’s  light. And  I’m not that  pregnant yet. Your  flight leaves  in less than  an hour.
We’d better  get moving.” She bustled  out of the  room and down  the hall. In the  kitchen, she
swept her car keys from  the countertop and frowned at the food on  the stove. I’ll stop backlater
and clean up, she thought.

The ugly thought  of two thugs kidnapping  Stephanie–or worse–gave him goose  bumps. Hearing the
front  door open  and shut,  he snatched  his bag  from the  bed and  rushed out.  He didn’t  want
Stephanie left alone for even a minute.

Meanwhile, Stephanie’s  gaze had already strayed  out past the  driveway, over the dead  and dying
weeds between yards, under the shade of a giant Siberian elm, and come to rest on Al, sitting on the
side steps in nothing but  boxer shorts, beer in one hand, spray bottle  in the other. The repugnant
smell of  filth carried in the  hot breeze from  his open kitchen  door. It drifted around  the lazy
weightlifter, past the pile of empty beer cans,  over the trash, to prick at Stephanie’s nostrils.
She quickly looked down to  avoid eye contact and paused to wait for Mitch.  Al rested his elbows on
his knees, grunting  as he leaned forward, and  pushed himself from the step. A  broken swamp cooler
had driven  him outside,  away from  his standard fare  of Sunday  afternoon cable  programming. The
suitcase and  cosmetic bag  in Stephanie’s hand  presented too many  questions to  remain lounging
about. Mitch burst out  the front door and surveyed the street and  surrounding area for any serious
threat. The almost laughable sight of Al, waddling across the driveway, spraying himself down with a
fine mist that ran down  the cleavage of his sagging chest, over his furry  belly and down the front
of his boxer shorts, made him look like he’d wet his pants. Hardly a threat.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

187

“Mitch,” Stephanie said, relieved. “I was just about to come back in.”

She rolled her eyes toward Al, who was  treading tender-footed over the sticker weeds growing at the
edge of his crumbling drive. “I’m so sick of his advances, I could scream.”

“Here, let  me take that. Let’s  go.” He drew the  suitcase from Stephanie’s hand.  Like his
wife, he definitely was not in the mood for any of Al’s wisecracks. “Stay behind me and open the
trunk,” he said through his teeth. “I’ll get rid of him.”

They stepped off the porch and down the sidewalk,  past the red gravel planter, and set their things
down by the trunk of the car. From the side, Al  raised his arm like a boy in a schoolroom. “I got
question,” he called  out. Then, tucking the spray  bottle under his bushy armpit  and picking one
dirty hoof up off the ground, he hopped on  the other, cursing a blue streak. Reaching down over his
belly, he tried to pull a sticker from his calloused foot.

Mitch fiddled for his keys. “Go home, Al. You look like you pissed your pants.”

“Al Kostecki  don’t piss pants,” he  ranted. Stephanie discretely  looked down his front  in a
half-smile and slid her own key into the trunk  lock. The rush of blood in Al’s head combined with
the ten beers now flowing  through his veins, added to the snapping of  his thick neck upward, while
still hopping on one foot, he was thrown off  balance. He staggered to the left, then listed hard to
the right to check his fall. His beer suds went airborne; the spray bottle did a 360 flip and landed
on the concrete drive. At the same time, the  trunk popped partway open and Mitch lifted the red bag
to toss it inside.  That’s when the sickening smell and repulsive sight  hit him; that’s when he
knew  there was  something else  awaiting him  inside the  trunk besides  a spare  tire and  a jack.
Instinctively he dropped the bag and slammed the trunk shut. As he did, the drunken man’s flailing
arm slapped the  back of the car, The hard,  swift blow broke Stephanie’s key off  at the hilt. Al
then crumpled hard on the drive.

Their  brutish neighbor’s  thick hand  raised  to the  trunk lid.  As  he pulled  himself up,  his
combustible temper unleashed itself in a nonstop string of vulgarities. Stephanie stood in shock and
anger. Mitch, however,  was too dumbstruck to defend  her. All he could do was  stand there, totally
overwhelmed by the ghastly, nauseating, decomposing corpse he’d just witnessed.

188 KEN MERRELL

This time Stephanie had had enough of Al’s uncouth behavior. “You . . .”

she stood shaking  her key chain at  Al, “you stupid, drunk pervert.  You broke my key  off in the
lock and I’m  covered in beer”. Several droplets of  dying foam ran down her face  and neck onto
the front of her shirt. Al grunted and shook his head. “Al Kostecki not pervert. Voman, I show you
one day real man.” His thick thumb sank  into his puffed-up chest. Mitch gasped in relief. Neither
Stephanie nor Al had caught sight or scent of  Mike’s mangled body curled up in the trunk, nor had
they noticed the anger  boiling inside him at Vinnie for putting it  there. Rather, Mitch was caught
up in a brooding, faraway daydream; the gulf between  the real and the imaginary was widening by the
second. Al’s mouth was  spewing trash at Stephanie; she in turn had  come out swinging, delivering
her own tongue lashing–one Al had had coming for months. “You’re no man!” she mocked.

“Real men don’t get charged with sexual crimes and try to intimidate women. You’re just a fat,
demoralized, perverted,  drunk!” All the while  she remained behind Mitch’s  perceived shadow of
protection. Mitch, the pressure inside him mounting by the second, clenched his jaw, raised his taut
fist,  and  brought it  down  like  a hammer  onto  the  trunk. The  metal  buckled  from the  blow.
“Enough!” he screamed. “. . . Al–get out of here and sober up. Stef, get in the car and shut
up.”

The rivals, stunned  by the act, immediately  abandoned the fight. Stephanie skulked  around the car
and slipped  inside. Her husband  had never raised  his voice at her  before. She knew  she probably
deserved it. Al, on the other hand, stood his ground like a stubborn teenager, mumbling in Russian.

“Well?” Mitch said,  eyeing the man, wondering if  the confrontation would escalate or  end in a
stalemate.

“Al not pervert.”

“Whatever you say, Al. Now go home and sober up.”

“Ten beers noting. . . . Ten more–maybe.”

Mitch knew  Al would sell  his own mother  for a case of  beer. He pulled  from his pocket  the cash
he’d gotten from Bino and peeled off a twenty. “Fine. Go get ten more–get positively plastered
–then sober up.”

Al’s slack-jawed  gaze shifted from  Mitch to the  bill, then back  to Mitch. After  measuring his
pride, he reached over  and snatched the prize from his neighbor’s fingers.  “I go get drunk,”
his voice belched.

“No feelings hard.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

189

Mitch opened the car door, pitched the cases in the back seat, jumped in behind the wheel and backed
from the driveway. They’d be late for his

‘flight.’

By then  Stephanie had  done her best  to calm  her nerves.  She looked down  at her  shaking hands.
“I’m really sorry, Mitch. I don’t know why I went off like that. It was stupid.”

Mitch only could  shake his head. “With  any luck he’ll buy  another case of beer  and forget it
ever happened. Now listen to me: Don’t go back to the house while I’m gone. Understand?”

Stephanie felt  like her heart-felt  apology had been completely  brushed aside. “You’re  not my
father,” she shot back, folding her arms across her chest. “And I’m not your daughter.”

“I didn’t say you were.  But if you do go back there while I’m  away, it’ll be the stupidest
thing you ever did.”

“That’s what my father  said about marrying you.” Stephanie bowed her  head. The hurtful words
had arisen from her lips with no thought of how they’d sound.

“Maybe it  was,” Mitch replied.  The car  fell deathly silent.  Mike’s body wasn’t  the only
thing growing  cold in the  heat of the  day. Dr.  Wochik scanned her  notes and checked  her watch.
“It’s agreed, then. If Nurse is willing, you will encourage her to stay here at the hospital and
let me see  if I can help  her work through her feelings.  I’ve made arrangements for  her to stay
here with Eddie. I think they will each benefit from the other’s company.”

The old  man stirred at the  sound of his  name and opened one  eye. Sound drew near.  “Hi, Eddie.
How’re you feeling?”

Eddie rolled his head  side to side to see who  all was in the room. His swollen  right eye left him
oblivious to  Margaret’s presence.  “Like an  amateur walloped by  the heavyweight  champ,” he
mumbled from his dry crusty lips.

Cap’n stood up. “Who done it, Eddie? Who shoved ya’ down that rat hole?”

Eddie refused  to talk about the  incident, or acted  as if he didn’t  have a clue what  they were
talking about.

Several miles later, Stephanie finally broke the icy  silence in the car. “This isn’t the way to
the airport. . . .”

190 KEN MERRELL

Mitch checked the mirrors for the twentieth time. “I’m not going to the airport.”

“Then where are we going?”

“I’ll drop you off at Maggie’s first.”

Stephanie bit her lip. “But I need my car.”

“It’s not running right and . . .”

“Mitch, you can’t leave me without a car . . .”

“I have no choice.”

“Yes, you do. Go to the airport and I’ll take the car.”

He  checked the  mirrors again.  No one  was following  them–he was  sure of  it .  “No! End  of
discussion.”

“What is  the matter with  you!” Deep  within, Stephanie was  harboring thoughts of  her father,
who’d taken  her car away  when she’d insisted on  marrying Mitch–who, she’d  always argued,
wasn’t anythinglike her father.

Still buried in a  state of crisis, Mitch gazed straight ahead. Maybe  her father was right. Hooking
up with him was the  worst thing that ever happened to her. Pregnant,  married to a convicted felon,
broke, about to be evicted from their home . . .  ; a liar, framed for the murder of his friend, and
now hauling a dead  body in the trunk of his  wife’s car . At last he  said, “Stef, I’m sorry,
but I can’t explain right now.”

Again the  inside of the car  became quiet as  a tomb. Ten minutes  later Mitch stopped in  front of
Maggie’s. He climbed out  and hauled Stephanie’s suitcase and overnight bag  from the back seat,
carried them around the car and set them on the curb. “I have to go,” he said, opening her door.

Stephanie  crawled forlornly  from the  car,  her face  streaked  with tears.  Something was  wrong,
terribly wrong.  It couldn’t be a  simplecase of flight-fright.  So what was it?  “Mitch,” she
pleaded, “you can’t go away while we feel this way. Please, tell me what’s the matter.”

Maggie came  out onto the  front porch of  her modest home. Sensing  the friction between  the young
couple, she kept her  distance. Mitch peered over at her, then back  at his sweetheart–the love of
his life, the love he was betraying. He felt like crying himself. “I’ll call you.”

Mitch turned and  stepped around to the driver’s-side  door, took one last fleeting  glance at his
wife, and climbed in.

“Mitch, please!”

As he drove away, a flood of tears cascaded down his face. His gut

THE IDENTITY CHECK

191

ached. His conflicting  emotions spun totally out of control.  Stop and tellher you love her.  . . .
You’re no good for her. . . . What about yourbabies? . . . She’ll be safe there at Maggie’s. .
. . Mitch–more  on automatic pilot than  anything–again checked his rear view  mirror. No, there
was no one trailing him. All he could  see was Stephanie’s slumped form, receding in the distance,
Maggie, her arm placed gently around his  wife’s shoulder, offering comfort. He wheeled the little
car around  the corner, skidded  to a stop  and pounded the steering  wheel with both  hands. It’s
Vinnie’s fault thatI’m in  trouble with the law, but I’m to blame  for everything else! Then a
deafening yell rose from  his heaving chest, the torrent of bottled-up  frustration bubbling up from
deep within, surfacing in a primitive scream.

192 KEN MERRELL

TWENTY-FOUR

THE LOW  RUMBLE OF HEATED VOICES  roused Greg from  his sleep. A  dense, muggy haze hung  inside the
cramped enclosure.  He reached up  and wiped a  smeared handful of sweat  from between his  chin and
chest. Little balls  of dead skin tugged at his  stubbly face as he returned to  wipe again with his
frayed shirt  sleeve. A prick  at his leg  brought his  other hand down  on his right  calf. Leaning
forward, he pulled the pant leg up his pink shin  and brushed away the bloated body of a bed bug. In
the grayness of the stifling room, he watched as the wounded insect battled to roll from its back to
its feet on the bare  mattress. All the while, his own brain and ears  had finally coalesced to hear
the conversation going on outside.

“You got nothin’ to worry ‘bout. Like I  told you, they ain’t got evidence or they would’a
drug me downtown. The old man lost his book–that’s it!”

“He called my old lady the day before he fell . . .”

“So what? Go see her; act like you missed her. Find out what she knows.”

Greg parted  the carpet  to see  who spoke.  The voices  were coming  from up  above on  the parking
structure. Warily, he  crept from the stale quarters  and peered under the concrete  guard rail that
ran along its edge. Two men stood less than ten  feet from the narrow opening. One was decked out in
expensive Italian shoes and a silk suit, the other in jeans and sandals with no socks.

“Missed her?”  Clint yowled  sarcastically. “She can  hardly stand the  sight of  me. ‘White
trash’, is what  my old man calls  us. He’d rather die  and leave his fortune  to the Republican
Party than me.”

“Then go tolerate her awhile  and see why he called her. If the old  man’s gonna spill his guts,
we need to know.”

“Pops doesn’t trust the police. As far as I know he hasn’t called the cops in fifty years.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

193

“Then why we havin’ this conversation?” Vinnie turned to climb in his car.

“Because the old lady will call the cops–in a heartbeat.”

Vinnie paused to wring his  hands. “Only one way to find out, ain’t there?  I got an office full
of lawyers that’ll squeeze the system if you  have any trouble. We ain’t goin’ down on account
a’ the old man, so stop your whinin’

and get your act together. We got work to do.” He slammed the door and peeled off up the ramp.

Greg crept back  into the enclosure and scrounged  through Nurse’s baskets, looking for  a pen and
paper. This was  no boardroom and there  weren’t any secretaries to keep  minutes. After recording
several pages of  detailed notes, he leaned back to  soak it all in. Horizontal rays  of evening sun
angled from down the  alley and filtered through the small crack of  the carpet doorway. Microscopic
bits of  glimmering dust  and grit floated  and danced in  lazy circles  in the bright  shafts. They
reminded him  of the  secure summer days  he spent  as a child;  they reminded him  of home,  of the
security of  being in  his own bedroom.  Only a  short time ago  he was ready  to end  his miserable
existence, but  life now seemed worth  fighting for. Just days  before, hope had died,  hope that he
would ever  again enjoy  the basic  comforts of  living, of family,  of friends.  Now hope  had been
restored. He had learned that if you persevere,  you can survive–and even thrive–in spite of the
lack of fancy  cars, country club memberships,  big-dollar jobs or stock  portfolios. Service, love,
friendship, God, family . . . these were the  critical elements to a happy life. He’d always taken
them for granted, hadn’t cherished their rare beauty. Would he be given a second chance–a chance
to set it right?

The sound of footsteps  on the gravelly pavement outside caught Greg’s  attention. The last golden
rays peeking  through the curtain were  blocked by a man’s  long shadow, which stretched  down the
alley and up the wall. Greg stuck his face next  to the narrow opening and watched as the same young
man he’d  found crying in the  alley jumped up effortlessly  over the concrete guardrail  into the
parking structure and disappeared among the cars.

Frantically foraging  through the piles of  baskets for a pair  of dirty socks, Greg  pulled them on
over his blisters.  In stockinged feet, he skulked  from his hiding place and scrambled  up and over
the wall, scanning between the cars that lined the mostly filled lot. At last he 194 KEN MERRELL

came across Mitch,  who was in the act of  crawling under the draw arm leading  to the employee-only
parking area on  the upper level. On tiptoes,  Greg darted across the concrete deck  toward the draw
arm, following the man,  who by now had bolted around  the corner and up the ramp.  He glanced up at
the security camera, positioned  in a corner near a concrete beam. Protected  by a heavy metal frame
and thick glass, it panned the entire western half of the second level. The sound of squealing tires
coming from behind  him prompted Greg to slow  to a walk. To  the blare of rock music,  a carload of
inebriated men with  wide-toothed grins and heads  bobbing loosely from side to  side, barreled past
him toward the exit. Instinctively, Greg’s posture took on that of a drunkard. He staggered, as if
in  a stupor,  stumbled up  against a  concrete pillar  and slid  to a  sitting position.  Nearby, a
pot-bellied security guard marched  double-time up the ramp at the far end.  “. . . Ten-four. Does
he look like a problem?” he barked out over his radio.

“No, he saw me,” the radio squawked. “He’s headed back your way.”

“I’m on it.  He won’t get past.” The heavy-set  guard drew his weapon and pointed  it up the
facing incline,  where he could  hear Mitch’s  approaching footsteps. As  he rushed back  down the
ramp, Mitch gauged the situation. The guard on the  upper level didn’t pose much of a problem, but
the one awaiting him at the gate arm, gun drawn, did.

“Hold on, kid,” the guard growled. “Mister Domenico wants to see you.”

Mitch slowed to  a standstill. Raising his hands  to his chest, he said, “What,  you’re going to
shoot me for walking around?”

The second guard thundered down the ramp from behind, out of breath and red-face mad.

“No,” he  hissed, drawing his nightstick  from its sheath,  “but we might break  your legs!”
With that, he landed a fierce, solid blow  to the back of Mitch’s knee. “Mister Domenico don’t
like people snoopin’

around, peekin’ in car windows. And I don’t like chasin’ no-good punks like you!”

Mitch’s leg buckled; he collapsed to the floor in agony. Greg, looking on from the presumed safety
of his down-on-his-luck disguise,  winced at the thought of the pain. He  turned away. The red-faced
guard noticed  the bum hunched against  the column and bent  to administer his meanspirited  form of
justice. “You wanna piece a’ this too?” he sneered, shaking the stick at Greg. Greg moaned and
rolled

THE IDENTITY CHECK

195

to his hands  and knees, intent on getting up  and moving along. The cruel guard  would have none of
it. He  raised his stick  and delivered a  vicious shot to Greg’s  backside. The second  moan that
erupted from Greg’s lips was no act. The guard  reared back and kicked Greg with his size-11 boot,
snarling, “Get outta here–worthless piece a trash!”

The big-bellied guard broke up  the fun. “Come on, Tom. The boss wants  this guy upstairs. You can
harass the drunks later.”

The red-faced guard  huffed and turned away. Then  both guards bent down, jerked Mitch  to his feet,
and escorted him up the ramp leading to the Three Queens employee entrance.

Greg, the wind knocked out  of him, fought to stand up. As he limped off  down the ramp, he massaged
at the growing knot in his buttocks, the  soft and ample pounds he’d accumulated sitting down over
the last several years.  Usually slow to anger, an all-consuming desire for  revenge had built up in
his chest. More than likely, Mister Domenico was the kingpin of the credit card scam that had ruined
his life.  It was time someone  did something about it.  But what, and how?  While gingerly climbing
over the  guard rail back  into the alley,  Greg heard someone  call, “Sunny, we  were wonderin’
where you went.”

It was Sound’s voice. As  he neared the concrete hut, Greg found, to  his dismay, the entire Alley
Team huddled together, with Nurse standing between Ritter and Cap’n, looking like her old self.

“‘At you, Sunny?” Nurse asked, rotating her head side to side, trying to adjust her half-blind
eyes in the darkness.

“I’m here.”

“See, I  tol’ you he didn’t  bail on us.  An’ he’s th’  only one ‘at didn’t  turn on
ol’  Nurse  like a  double  crossin’  traitor.”  The old  woman  jabbed  her wiry  elbow  into
Cap’n’s ribs. “These two-timin’ bums was tryin’

to  get me  an’ Belle  locked up  in th’  nuthouse. Be  jiggered if  we’re goin’  back there
‘gain.”

“Weren’t nobody  tryin’ to lock  you up,  you old bag  a’ wind,” Cap’n  replied. “Just
thought you might like to let the doctor help you, is all.”

“Help me–cow pucky! ‘At’s what Charlie done  tol’ that Alabama judge pert-near fifty years
ago.” Nurse  leaned over and mumbled  through her hand,  “Sorry, Belle, I promised  I wouldn’t
talk bad ‘bout yer daddy no more, but I gotta  say it, get it off a’ my conscience. Weren’t my
fault. Was  yer lazy, hooch-drinkin’ daddy–he’s  th’ one didn’t  keep an eye on  ya’, no
matter what he tol’ ever’body else.” She straight-196 KEN MERRELL

ened up and folded her arms defiantly across her sagging chest. “If’n I asked once I asked ‘em
a thousand times to fill that dry well with the extra rocks the neighbor dumped next ta’ the hole.
If’n he’d a’ got his  lazy butt up outta the hammock, he could’a  had it filled before Belle
was even born. But no . . . said he had plenty a’ time before she learned to walk. Promised he’d
put somethin’ over  it when she learned  ta’ crawl, and swore  he’d watch her while  I was out
back scrubbin’ th’ dirty clothes.”

Everyone listened intently as Nurse rambled on. “I checked on ‘em once

‘r twice, ‘fore  I started cookin’ supper.  Caught ‘im sippin’ his hooch  once while Belle
was playin’ on the front porch real nice. Said he weren’t sleepy

‘tall . . .” Her  voice trailed off, then she again spoke from the  side of her mouth. “Course
you  can’t  remember,  Belle. You  was  too  young.  Now  let  me  finish without  none  a’  yer
interruptions.”

Greg looked over at Ritter with a puzzled  stare. The old Englishman arched his shoulders and nodded
as Nurse went on with her narrative.

“Only been  fifteen minutes  since I  checked on  ‘em ‘til I  called Charlie  to eat.  When he
didn’t answer, I  went back out front. Lazy bum  was dead drunk, empty bottle a’  hooch broke on
the ground.”

Nurse’s forehead wrinkled and her lips puckered into an angry kiss.

“Good  thin’ I  found Belle  ‘fore she  fell in  ‘at hole.”  The lips  transformed into  a
toothless smile. “I’d a’ missed her somethin’ terrible.”

“But you said . . .” Greg interrupted.

“Jus’ a  mistake. Been gettin’’  a bit forgetful  in my  ol’ age. .  . . ‘Sides,  how in
tarnation could Belle be here if’n she fell in th’ well?”

Greg nodded politely at Ritter. “Point well taken. Glad to have you back, Belle.”

Nurse cringed.  “Don’t you  start too,  Sunny. Got  ‘nough crap  in the  chicken coop–we’s
already up to our knees. . . . You still wearin’ a ring an all, you ought not be a flirtin’ with
a young single girl.”

Greg reached down  and fiddled with the ring on  his finger. If he hadn’t put  on the extra pounds
he’d have taken  it off by now. He looked  down into Nurse’s face. She knew  Belle was dead; she
just didn’t want to have to deal with the pain. “How’s Eddie doing?” he finally asked.

“As ornery as ever  and tight lipped as a door nail,” said  Cap’n. “Won’t tell nobody what
happened. Just said he fell down the chute.”

The expression on  Greg’s face grew even  more puzzled. “I’ve seen some  strange things around
here this afternoon. Some poor kid was just whacked

THE IDENTITY CHECK

197

in the  leg by  one of Mister  Vinnie’s goons  and drug off  to see the  man, at  gunpoint. He’s
probably up in Vinnie’s  penthouse right now. Not a good  place to be. I kind of  feel like I know
the young  guy. My brain keeps  telling me he’s  a saint. Earlier today  I found him in  the alley
crying behind the garbage can. But when I asked him what was wrong, he jumped up and ran off.”

Mitch stepped off the elevator on the 13th floor, wishing he’d run away the first time he’d ever
met Vincent Domenico. “Didn’t figure you’d get on  the plane, kid. Tell me, did your wife meet
Mike, or  was the  pleasure all  yours?” Mitch just  stood there,  tongue-tied, his  jaw clenched,
glaring  at Vinnie.  “Was it  when you  put your  suitcase in  the car?”  He laughed  and tossed
something at Mitch, an  object he’d kept tucked under his jacket. Mike’s  Federal I.D. badge hit
Mitch in  the chest and  bounced open on  the floor.  “Just like I  figured, a cop,  Federal type.
‘Course, maybe you already knew that. Had that  badge stuck under his pant leg.” Vinnie’s leer
turned hard and angry. “Had this strapped to the  other leg.” He stuck his gloved hand under his
lapel  and brought  out  a  second item.  This  time Mitch  managed  to  block Vinnie’s  underhand
fast-pitch throw. The heavy,  metallic object bounced off his arm and clunked  to the floor near the
badge. Mitch’s stunned gaze settled on the black hand gun at his feet.

“You was gonna set  me up,” grumbled Vinnie. “You’re about as predictable  as they come. And
here I  thought you’d wise  up and figure  out the  system ain’t fair.  You gotta make  your own
luck–it don’t come to you. You either go with  the flow or get run over. But you’re too stupid
to figure that out. You just stand there in the middle a’ the road.”

Mitch again stared down at the small automatic.

“Wonderin’ if it’s loaded?  But you ain’t the gamblin’ type, now,  are you? Don’t drink,
probably don’t smoke, bet you never been with a whore. . . .”

Mitch’s nostrils flared like an angry bull’s.

“I know what you  are. One a’ them preacher boys ridin’ ‘round  town on your bike,” Vinnie
taunted. “What if I told you  the gun was loaded and all you got to do is  pick it up and pull the
trigger?”

Mitch finally found his voice. “I don’t believe anything that comes from your lying mouth.”

Vinnie leaned back in his chair and propped his hands behind his head. 198 KEN MERRELL

“You’re gonna hurt  my feelings, kid. We gotta  learn to trust each other if  we’re gonna work
together.”

“Won’t happen.”

“Then it looks like I’m gonna hafta kill you.  Go on, take a gamble. I give you my word–it’s
loaded. Pick up the piece and give it your best shot. .  . . I’ll count to five. One . . . two . .
.”

Mitch, sensing the guy wasn’t kidding, reached down and picked up the gun. Lifting it, he took aim
at Vinnie’s glowering mug.

“. .  . three .  . . four–you  better do it before  I scatter your  brains all over  my elevator
doors–or ain’t you got what it takes?”

A thousand pictures flashed through Mitch’s mind. The one most vivid was of Stephanie standing out
on  the sidewalk  in front  of Maggie’s,  crying  as he  pulled away.  His heart  was racing,  his
breathing deep as he gripped the gun. Vinnie brought  his own gun from his jacket and steadily hiked
it to eye level.  “Five.” Mitch squeezed the trigger; the gun clicked.  The tough guy, obviously
impressed, pulled himself to his feet and walked over  to where Mitch stood. “See, you do got what
it takes,” he gloated, reaching out to pry the weapon from Mitch’s frozen fingers before tucking
his own back inside his belt. “And all this time I thought you lacked stomach.” A quick flick of
the  wrist snapped  a loaded  clip from  the small  hand gun.  The cartridge  bounced off  the white
carpeted floor and rolled  up against the floorboard. “Like I said, the  gun was loaded–just not
the  chamber.” He  shoved it  in Mitch’s  front pocket  and returned  to his  desk. All  at once
Mitch’s simmering temper reached the boiling point.

“And you’re  nothing but a lying,  cheating coward who always  plays with a stacked  deck,” he
screamed. His  eyes glazed over. He’d  just been willing  to kill the  wise guy, so great  was the
disgust and hatred he felt towards him.

“Feels good,  don’t it. . .  . Blood pumpin’ through  your veins, adrenalin rushin’  to your
head. Makes everything  hard, intense. Go ahead,  pick up the clip  and pop it in.  It’s easer the
second time around, and just  as big a rush. That is, unless my bullet  nails you first. Then it’s
no rush at all. It’s just . . . dead.”

Greg had just finished explaining what he’d seen, how the two guards had dragged the young man off
to Vinnie’s penthouse and about the whack

THE IDENTITY CHECK

199

he himself had taken across the backside. A broad smile spread across Sound’s lean face, “If you
think you’re  hurt that bad,”  he said, “you  ought to  drop them pants  and let Nurse  take a
look.”

Everyone laughed–all  except Nurse.  “What else?”  she insisted. “This  ain’t no  time fer
funny business. I seen  an’ heard more livin’ in this alley–bad eyes  an’ all–‘an I care
t’ talk  about. ‘At boy might  be in a  heap a’ trouble, and  we’s likely the only  ones can
help.” Faces slackened and all eyes turned back to Greg.

“Vinnie was wearing a pair of disposable coveralls. He  pulled a small white car out of the garage
down the alley, just after the young guy ran off.  Then some young dude–I guess he was a valet, or
something–came and drove the car away.”

“Was it an Escort?” Ritter piped in.

Greg shook his head. “I’m a computer nerd, not a car salesman.”

Ritter closed his eyes,  remembering. “I noticed a white Escort parked by  the vacant lot on Third
when Mrs. Thurston’s cab dropped us off. Think it might be the car?”

Sound raised a finger and shook it in  Ritter’s face. “Just because you’re a mechanic and know
your cars,  it doesn’t mean the  rest of us do.”  Smitty scratched methodically at  his scraggly
beard and nodded in agreement.

“Nobody asked your bloody opinion,” Ritter shot back as he turned between Sound and Smitty.

“Enough,” Nurse snapped,  disrupting the quarrel. “Don’t matter. You  two report to Cap’n,
then go check out the car. Take Smitty. If’n it’s locked, he can open it up so you can see whose
it is.”

“You heard the orders, go check out the car,” Cap’n repeated. Smitty turned and–mime that he
was–leaned forward as if  in full stride, waiting for someone to take  up the lead. Ritter pivoted
sharply  on his  short  legs and  stepped in  front,  striding out  on  upcurled toes  to keep  from
aggravating his bunions. Sound  leaned over to address Nurse, raising a finger  as if to protest the
assignment. But before he could get out a single syllable, Cap’n roared, “Move, private!”

Overmatched, and  defeated before  he’d begun,  Sound abandoned the  objections, smacked  his lips
together, and followed the other two vagrants up the alley towards Bridger Avenue.

Pistol clip in hand, Mitch stroked the first bullet with his thumb. Vinnie 200 KEN MERRELL

had removed  his own gun  from his jacket  and held it  up with its  clip. “Your move,  kid. Kinda
excitin’, ain’t it. Just like an old TV-western showdown.”

Mitch’s chest heaved. Every muscle in his body was knotted. He knew how to shoot–picked off many
a junkyard  rat with his grandpa’s  9mm. He hefted the  weapon and imagined blowing  away the big,
two-bit rat sitting before him. His mind reeled as  he pondered what he was up against. Theguy’s a
piece of  trash , no  better than a filthy  rat. . .  . But Stef  and thetwins. What would  they do?
Vinnie’s a cold-blooded killer.  I’m over-matched. . . . Deciding he had  to call Vinnie out and
meet him  on more equitable terms,  he muttered under his  breath, “You’re still playing  with a
stacked deck.”

“What? You got a gun, I got a gun. Sounds even to me. You ‘fraid I’m faster?”

“Maybe, maybe not. But you’ve got nothing to lose but your miserable life. I’ve got everything
to live for–that is, I had, until you came along.”

“Hmm,” Vinnie sighed, crossing his legs at the ankle. “You want your puny life back?”

“That’d be a good start.”

“Look around you.  I started with nothin’,  just like you, kid,  and now look what  I got. I’m
offerin’ you a piece of  it.” Vinnie waved his arms in a flourish. “All you  got to do is come
to work for me.”

“Why me?”

“Don’t know. Been tryin’ to figure it out for  myself. Ain’t never had nobody tell me no but
my old man.” He swallowed hard.

“You miss him.”

Several fowl oaths tumbled from Vinnie’s lips as he  stood, snapped the clip in his gun and shoved
it back in  the holster. “The old man was  nothin’. Just a shooter for his  brother. Had no self
respect. . .  . Now about that  wager.” Vinnie spun on the  balls of his leather  shoes and strode
over to the wet-bar.

Mitch looked down at the clip in his hand, while his other hand inched toward the gun in his pocket.
Vinnie had  a soft spot  after all.His whole  life was centered around  proving himself to  his dead
oldman. “My  dad’s dead, too,”  Mitch murmured as  he eased the  gun from his  pocket. “Shot
himself in the head when I  was seven. I miss him and hate him, both at  the same time. Miss him for
not being there for me; hate him for what he did.” Mitch slid the clip partway into the grip.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

201

Almost in  a single  motion, Vinnie swung  the refrigerator  door open, spun  around to  face Mitch,
yanked his  pistol from  its holster and  bolted a round  into the  chamber. The barrel  was pointed
straight at Mitch’s head.  “Don’t miss him!” the hood snarled. “Like  I told you–my dad,
yours, they was patsies.  . . . Now you wanna  die or gamble?” Mitch eased the  clip from the grip
and slid  the gun in  one pocket, the  clip in  the other. “I  would’a been disappointed  if you
hadn’t tried, kid. But if you ever try again, I’ll kill you on the spot.”

Greg watched the vagrants turn at the end of the alley and head toward Third. “They gone?” Nurse
asked him.  “Can’t stand ‘nother  minute a’ their squabblin’.  We got some  serious things
t’ consider. . . .”

She leaned in close to Greg and Cap’n. “I ain’t never told nobody what I’m ‘bout t’ tell
you two. Ya’ both gotta swear ya’ won’t tell no one, long as I’m alive.”

“What is it, Nurse?”

“Swear.”

“I swear.”

“You too, Cap’n.”

“You know me better’n that . . .” Cap’n began.

“You gotta swear.”

“Fine. I swear.”

Nurse faltered, cleared her throat, then spoke. “Few  months back, I heard some ugly shoutin’ at
the body shop. Was real late and woke me outta a dead sleep. I snuck down by the door and could hear
Mister Vinnie yellin’ at Jimmy.”

“Who’s Jimmy?” Greg asked.

“The lowdown slime ball used to run the shop for Mister Vinnie. Always had his drugusin’ friends
down here late at night, smokin’ their glass, keepin’ me awake.”

“Glass?”

Cap’n piped in. “Street name for meth.”

“Methamphetamine?”

“‘Course,” snorted the big man. “Where you been hangin’ out, Sunny, at the beach?”

“Sorry. I’ve lived kind of a sheltered life.”

“No  mind,” Nurse  continued in  her  hushed tone.  “Like  I’s sayin’,  Mister Vinnie  was
askin’ Jimmy what he’d been tellin’ others, ‘specially his new 202 KEN MERRELL

boss Mike. Jimmy kep’ sayin’ ‘Nothin’, Vinnie, I swear I ain’t told nobody nothin’ . . .
I swear.’  Well, after that, their  voices went kinda’ smothered,  like they was in  a closet. I
started back for bed, ‘cause I couldn’t hear what they was sayin’ no more. Then I heard a pop.
I’m sure it was a gun.”

Greg’s eyes went wide. “He killed him?”

“Didn’t see it  with my own eyes,  but the yellin’ stopped.  I was shakin’, see.  And then a
couple ‘a minutes later, some machines started inside. Two weeks later the cops were askin’ lots
a’ questions ‘round here. Rumor has it, everybody knows it were Vinnie who done it. A warnin’,
a’ sorts, not to cross ‘im.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

203

TWENTY-FIVE

THE ALLEY TEAM didn’t  even ask each other if they  were willing to help the kid,  it was a given.
Greg thought he knew  him from somewhere, and he was in some  kind of trouble–‘Vinnie’ kind of
trouble. That was enough for them. The hood had taken too much control of the neighborhood and, they
were certain,  he was up  to no  good. Eddie had  taken a fall  and almost  died and Jimmy  had been
murdered–mind you, not that anyone felt any great loss  over his passing. . . . Vinnie slouched in
his desk  chair and offered Mitch  a seat. He was  holding the title to  Mitch’s “goat,” along
with the gun that had killed Mike, still in a plastic bag. “You sure you don’t wanna sit?”

“Positive.” Mitch consciously slowed his breathing, his arms folded across his chest.

“Suit yourself,” Vinnie sniffed.  “Okay, here’s the bet: I hide the gun  in my cah, give you
the title to your cah as good faith.” Vinnie waved  the title like a trophy. “You knew I had it,
didn’t you?” Mitch nodded.

“Then you got forty-eight  hours to steal my cah and  get the gun. If you do  it without laying so
much as a scratch on  my precious Ferrari, we trade cahs. You bring mine to  me, I give you the goat
back–in pristine condition, mind you–and you walk away, no questions asked.”

“And?”

“And what?”

“And if I don’t get away?”

“You come to work for me. You can keep the cah and I’ll pay you like you never been paid before.
The gun’ll be insurance, so you don’t renege on the bet.” Vinnie reached out with the title.

“How do you know I’m not a cop?”

Vinnie burst out laughing. “Kid you got your  butt hangin’ out all over. That pretty little wife
a’ yours has  ‘vulnerability’ written all over  you. And cops don’t drive  Pontiac GTOs with
plates from a Chrysler.”

204 KEN MERRELL

His face went  grim. “And if you was a  cop, I’d either be dead or  locked in the slammer–like
you’ll be if the Feds figure out who killed Mike.”

“What about Mike?” Mitch still stood with his arms folded. Vinnie dropped the title on the floor
at Mitch’s  feet. “Good  ol’ Mike,  curled up  sound asleep  in the  back a’  your woman’s
car.” Vinnie  turned, stretched his arms,  and began to pace.  “The cah’s a total  loss. Hafta
burn it.  I’ll take  care of Mike  after you  move the  body into his  sedan. It’s  still parked
outside the body shop. The  keys are in his pocket.” Vinnie opened a  file cabinet drawer and took
out a pair of disposable coveralls.

“You  might want  to put  these on.”  He tossed  the bundle  on the  floor near  Mike’s badge.
“Leave ‘em in the trunk with Mike, along with  the gun and badge. Make sure you wipe your prints
clean.”

Mitch shook  his head. “The way  I see it,  you’re still playing  with the deck stacked  in your
favor.”

“How’s that?”

“You’re betting my life and  my car. If you lose, you lose nothing. If I  win, I’m still out a
car and  my credit cards  you’ve been messing  with. Up the anti–put  something of yours  on the
line, then hand me the keys to your car. . . .”

Vinnie paced again. “I see your point. Maybe I’ll make a bettin’

man outta you yet.” He stalked back to the fridge and pulled open the door. After pulling a banded
pile of cash  from one of its trays, he  returned and dropped the stack on  the coveralls. “Twenty
grand.  You win,  it’s yours,  paid up  front. My  boys catch  you first,  you lose,  it’s three
months’ wages.”  Vinnie reached into his  suitcoat pocket, pulled out  the keys to his  car, and
held them out in his open palm. “This oughta be  fun, kid. Real fun.” He dropped the keys on the
pile. Sound was first to run down the alley,  with Smitty close behind. Ritter was nowhere in sight.
“There’s a body in the trunk!” he announced, out of breath. “Poor guy’s brains are leaking
out.”

Greg shuddered, already freaked out by Nurse’s story.

“Shut your  traps! You want  th’ whole stinkin’ block  to know?” Nurse  chided. “‘Sides,
ain’t the first time you seen a dead body.” She  craned her neck to peer back out to the street.
“Where’s Ritter?”

“He’s coming.”  Sound gave  a wave  of his  hand, then  lowered his  voice. “Sure,  but this
one’s been murdered. Yeah, I’ve seen bodies before, but those were guys having accidents or just
being on the street

THE IDENTITY CHECK

205

too long . . .”

“Ain’t true,”  countered Nurse.  “Skip was thrown  front a’ a  train. Cops  didn’t care,
‘cause he’s one a’ us.” Sound nodded in agreement. “Sunny, you gotta take a look a’ that
car and see if’n it’s same one Vinnie was pullin’

out.”

Everyone turned  to see  Ritter coming  up the alleyway,  waddling heel-first.  Greg turned  back to
Nurse. “I’ll try, but I don’t think I’ll be much help.”

Badly out  of breath,  Ritter shuffled up  to the group.  “Mitchell and–Stephanie  Wilson,” he
gasped. Then, turning to address his fellow street  rats, he whined, “Why in blasted darkness ‘d
you run off so fast?”

“Didn’t you hear  us?” replied Sound. “We found a  body in the trunk. The key  was broken in
the lock, so Smitty just popped the trunk open with a screwdriver.”

“Some bloody  friends you are–leaving  me sittin’  in the cab  while you’re racing  down the
street.” Ritter  doubled up  his fist  and made  a beeline  for Sound.  Smitty, diving  for cover,
slithered behind Cap’n, who in turn seized Ritter by the collar.

Holding up her arms, Nurse quelled the near-riot. “Hold it! We ain’t gonna have no cat fight!”

Cap’n’ brought Ritter’s face near his own.  “You hear? ‘At’s an order.” Giving him one
last warning scowl, he shoved Ritter away like a pesky fly.

“Bloomin’ cowards,” Ritter mumbled, his eye twitching in pain as he straightened his shirt.

Finally Nurse  steered the  group back to  the matter  at hand.  “Who in th’  love a’  Pete is
Mitchell an’ Stephanie Wilson?” she demanded.

“Registered owners  of the car,  for queen’s sake,” Ritter  trumpeted. Still messing  with his
shirt, he mewled, “You big ox, you broke me button!”

Cap’n raised his big paw in a threatening  gesture, sending Ritter scampering away. Nurse raised a
crooked finger and shook  it at them both. “I ain’t warnin’ ya’  ‘gain. One more word a’
trash an’ I’m sendin’

ya’ both home.  We got work t’ do.”  The old woman dropped her hand–and  her voice. “Names
ring a bell?”  she asked Greg. He shook his  head. The little family then ducked  behind the power
box in front of Nurse’s shack and began to form a plan.

206 KEN MERRELL

“We on?” Vinnie asked.

Mitch stood thinking over the proposition. At last he unfolded his arms.

“One change.”

“What’s that?”

“I’ll  take care  of Mike’s  body and  the car.  Someone once  told me  I need  to see  to the
details–personally.”

“See, you learned somethin’ already.”

“Yeah, I’m learning real fast.” Mitch looked down at the pile at his feet.

“Take it, kid, all bets final.” Mitch crouched over and gathered up the assorted items: Mike’s
badge, $20,000 in cash, the keys to Vinnie’s car, the title to his GTO, and the pair of disposable
coveralls. As he went to stand up, Vinnie grabbed him by the hair and again shoved the barrel of his
gun in Mitch’s cheek.  “Remember–you screw with me, kid, and I’ll do  your pretty lady while
you watch, then show you–up close and personal–what  a piece like this’ll do to your head. Got
that?”

Mitch held his head erect and looked Vinnie straight in the eye, jaw clenched. “I got it.”

“And you  try and skip  out on me,  the gun goes downtown  with your name  on it. Can’t  run far
enough to get away  from the Feds, neither. I got  a few friends who tried. If  the Feds don’t get
you, I will.” Vinnie shoved Mitch away.  “Forty-eight hours,” he snapped, then pushed the call
button by the elevator. “My  boys catch you before you get the car, the bets  over and I win. Good
luck getting outta the hotel.”

Mitch stepped into  the elevator. A slender  hint of a smile  creased his lips as  he remembered the
camera in the corner. Turning to face his foe, he said, “Catch me? Won’t happen.” The elevator
door closed.  Vinnie immediately sat down  at his desk and  flipped on the digital  computer screen,
scrolling through the frames of live surveillance video  until he got to the elevator. There was his
patsy, his back to the  lens. The kid pushed the stop button, then  fumbled nervously with the items
he held clamped under his arm. Then the kid  did something totally unexpected: he turned to face the
camera and said, “You’re still playing with a stacked deck, Mr. Domenico. Go fish. . . .” Then
he raised Mike’s gun and aimed it at the camera. When he squeezed the trigger, Vinnie recoiled and
slouched to  the side,  as if dodging  a real  bullet, before  the screen went  blank. The  sound of
gunfire echoed up the elevator shaft. Vinnie grabbed the phone and punched a button.

“The kid’s on the eleventh floor. He’s got a gun. The guy that nabs

THE IDENTITY CHECK

207

him–alive–gets the twenty  grand he’s packin.” The downstairs security  office became a tank
of sharks caught up in a feeding frenzy. Uniformed guards scurried about, seeking out positions near
the elevator and the hotel’s exits.

“And park three men at my car,” added Vinnie. “I don’t want him gettin’

near it.”

Inside elevator #1, Mitch  punched the buttons to every floor, tucked the  cash, coveralls and title
inside  his shirt  and  the gun  and  badge  in his  pocket.  Before hitting  the  start button,  he
contemplated how  he would proceed.  Getting out of  the building  will be the  hard part. But  if I
makeit out in one piece, Vinnie’s made one  big mistake: without a body, thegun’s useless. Mitch
calculated the risks involved. Vinnie’s just playinggames  again. There’s no way he’s going to
let me out on the  street witha gun, the keys to his car and  twenty-thousand dollars. It’s got to
beanother setup.

Meanwhile, Vinnie scrolled down on his video  surveillance equipment and switched the camera view to
the 11th-floor hallway, where he watched the elevator  doors shut. The camera was located around the
corner, so Mitch  was out of view.  He couldn’t be sure  whether the kid was  still inside. Vinnie
cursed, “Override the elevator.”

The guard from the main security room called back, “We can’t, sir. The system’s too old.”

“Then get a man on  every floor and every entrance and kill the power  to my elevator. Don’t let
the kid outta the building.  He stole the keys to my car.” Two guards  rushed down the hall toward
the mechanical room. The  slow-moving elevator lurched to a halt on the  10th floor. Vinnie switched
screens again, to a large group of senior citizens chatting in the hallway while waiting for a lift.
The doors  opened and the  energetic seniors  scurried inside–into an  empty car. Up  above, Mitch
eased his foot through the jimmied trap door in the elevator’s ceiling and quietly coaxed it shut.
The muted voices of the old folks below rattled on about the all-you-can-eat seafood buffet

. . .  too many calories . . .  how much they’d won and lost  in the nickel slots . .  . the lousy
beds in room 1015.

Still farther below, the #2 and #3 elevators  settled to the lobby floor, opening to several waiting
guards. Suddenly the  #1 car jolted to a  stop. A collective gasp issued from  its older passengers,
followed by a  sing-song of self-reassurances that  everything would be alright.  Mitch’s eyes had
gradually adjusted to the darkness of the elevator shaft, which, 208 KEN MERRELL

he saw,  shared a connecting  shaft with two  other cars in  a common concrete  compartment. Greasy,
metal guide tracks were  bolted to the back walls by means of  angle-iron straps, spaced in three-to
four-foot intervals up and down the shaft.

The two rising  elevators advanced intermittently, their  bells ringing at each  floor. One elevator
stopped just  one floor below.  Mitch listened in  on the guards’  hot-blooded argument as  to who
should stay  on the 8th floor  and who would go  on up to the  9th. The second of  the two elevators
ground to a halt about a foot short of the  powerless car where Mitch waited. He stepped over to its
roof as the doors opened and the pack of frantic guards rushed out.

“Power #1 back up,” he heard a guard call over the radio. The #2 car’s doors shut and the lift
began  its ascent.  Mitch didn’t  hear the  reactions of  the startled  elderly guests  when their
elevator doors opened onto  a line of armed guards. Their sighs of  relief and astonished gasps were
drowned out by the spinning pulleys and moving  cables attached to the second elevator–a car that,
Mitch realized, was moving in the wrong direction!  He stooped to listen as the two remaining guards
waited for the door to open.

“He’s not  on the elevator,”  the radio  squealed, over the  mingled voices of  alarmed senior
citizens.

“Block the door with an ashtray,” one of the men ordered. “Then search the floor. I’ll check
the stairs.”

Mitch took hold of the latch  on the trap door and opened it a crack. The  car was empty. Not a good
move to  start out above  the otherelevators, he  thought as he released  the latch and  studied the
jumble of suspended cables and electrical wires overhead.  He gave a tug at the power cable attached
to the top of  the shaft. It seemed to hang  from a retractable pulley that reeled it  in and out as
the car went  up and down. The cable slackened  as he stretched it around the  metal guide wheels at
the back of the car. With any luck, at first movement the elevator would be disabled.

Drawing the disposable  coveralls from his shirt, he  wrapped them around his hands  and reached for
the cables of the  #3 car, which sat motionless just two floors  below. Cautiously, he began sliding
down the cable, his feet swinging precariously in  the air. Hoping and praying the elevator didn’t
move and send the  cables on their pulleys reeling in opposite directions,  his feet finally came to
rest atop the third

THE IDENTITY CHECK

209

car. Quietly standing chest-high to the doors of  the 10th floor, he fingered their release latches.
They didn’t seem  to work like he’d seen in  the movies. It appeared the doors  were designed to
open only when two spring-loaded safety latches on  opposite sides were tripped. And they could only
be tripped when the  elevator was parked in the proper position. That  would pose a problem. Getting
out of  the shaft without an  elevator seemed the best  option; disabling the other  two cars seemed
like time well spent. The power cable on the third car was also wound on a retractable pulley. Mitch
drew out enough slack to  wind it around the guide wheels at the  back. Then, dangling perilously by
the angle-iron braces, he crossed back over to where the first car had reappeared.

“Come on, let’s give ‘em  a hand on the eleventh.” The voice came  from one of the elevators
down near the 9th floor, but the echoing sound in the shaft made it almost impossible to distinguish
which  one. Centering  himself on  the first  car, he  tugged at  the power  cable overhead.  Guards
entering below  shook the car. Mitch  made a quick  wrap with the  cable just as the  elevator doors
shut. Hurrying to make a frantic second loop around the wheel, he released the cord. As the elevator
started up along its track, the floundering cord  became entangled in the wheel and stretched beyond
its  limits, sending  a shower  of sparks  cascading from  its jagged  ends. The  car bounced,  then
recoiled to a brakeless stop.

The stunned guards  inside the car started to  cuss and bang on the elevator  doors. Unhooking their
flashlights from  their belts,  they peered  dumbly up at  the innocuous  ceiling tiles  above them,
speculating about  how their ‘man’–possibly still  hiding in the elevator  shaft–had brought
the car to  a standstill. Mitch yanked the frayed  power cable from the greasy gears  and again drew
some slack from the reel, several stories above. This new cord he wedged between an angle-iron brace
and its neighboring track,  and dropped the hot end on the car’s  trap door. Without further delay
he clasped tightly to a second brace and started  climbing down the wall of the shaft, his long legs
and arms navigating from one brace to the next.

The blood-curdling yell of the guard who’d been lifted up by the others to check out the trap door
rebounded up and down the 13-story chasm.  Mitch cringed, hoping the man wasn’t seriously injured.
Muffled  radio  chatter and  angry  voices  echoed and  collided  with  the man’s  screams.  Mitch
subconsciously counted floors as he hurled him-210 KEN MERRELL

self downward along the back  of the wall. They’d have the power off  soon, and then they’d come
after him. He  didn’t have much time. Meanwhile,  Smitty had been busy picking  two locks–one to
Carson Auto Body’s alley-side door, the other to Stephanie’s ignition–while Sound disconnected
the phone service  and power to the body shop  to shut off the alarm and  disabled the keypad. Nurse
had been adamant about not repeating the  same three-ring circus they’d suffered through before at
Eddie;s place.

“It look like the same car?” Nurse asked Greg as the little Escort pulled in the alley.

Greg shook his  head. “I’m not much help in  the dark. Even in the light,  all little white cars
look the same to me.”

She  nodded. “Don’t  break yer  pick thinkin’  too hard.  If’n it  is, someone’s  gonna be
wonderin’ where it went. An  if’n it ain’t, we just come up with  a mouthful a’ feathers. My
bet is, Mr. Vinnie did the poor fella right here.” She rapped on Carson Auto’s overhead door and
it slowly inched  up. Smitty, a silly grin on  his face, stood just inside. Greg  scanned the joint.
“You think this is the safest place to keep it?”

Nurse chuckled. “You ever wear glasses?”

“No.”

“Well I did, ‘til I  weren’t able to see no more. And I’ll be  hog-tied in a hornet’s nest
if’n I couldn’t find ‘em while they was a sittin’ on my own head! Nah, they wouldn’t think
to look here.  Now we gotta hurry ‘fore  ‘at boy comes back.” Nurse waved  Ritter forward into
the garage. “You ‘member where you know ‘im from yet?”

“No, not for the life of me. But for some strange reason I think he knows my son.”

“No matter. If’n he  killed ‘at poor fella, we’ll be tellin’ the  law. If’n he didn’t,
we’ll be  helpin’ ‘im outta  a butt noose,  the one Mr. Vinnie  probably got ‘im  latched in
tighter ‘an a fiddle string.” She waved Ritter back  out of the garage as Smitty pulled the door
closed. Nurse was right, no doubt about it. Mitch’s  tail was in one heck of a noose. One security
guard had climbed out onto the back wall and  was starting down the elevator shaft from above, while
a second was  barking orders from atop the disabled  car. “It looks like he’s just  about to the
third floor,” he called out. “Get the elevator down there.” The #1

THE IDENTITY CHECK

211

car, still  on the  11th floor, whirred  to a  start. Mitch  felt the vibrations  of the  tracks and
braces. He could  see the elevator, strung with  power cables like the first one,  headed down above
him in his shaft. Before reaching him, however, it would peel the climbing guard right off the wall.
“Not  that  elevator,”  screamed  the  upper  guard into  his  radio.  “Our  man’s  in  that
shaft–shut it down!” But the car continued its decent.

“It won’t stop!”  both radios answered in  unison. The car hummed past  the disabled elevator,
bearing down on the guard.

“Tom, get the hell outta there!” yelled the  one above. “He’s got the power cable tangled in
the rollers!”

A cuss word tripped  from the guard’s tongue, causing him to drop  the small flashlight he carried
in his  teeth. Its beam flickered  and twirled on  the grimy walls as  it plunged past Mitch  to the
basement below.

“Jump to  the other  side!” Mitch screamed  up at  the man. “Jump!”  The guard  glanced down
frantically at Mitch,  then pressed his body up  against the cinder block wall to  brace himself for
the impact. Once more his eyes met Mitch’s, the  dim lights panning down from the top of the shaft
onto his prey’s face. Then they shifted across to the other shaft. “Now!” screamed Mitch.

The guard hesitated,  measured his leap, then  lunged from the braces  like a hippo out  of water. A
loud grunt was  followed by a groan as he  careened headlong into the rails and  slid down the wall,
his leg jamming  up against the next  brace. The tracks rattled  and the elevator car  slid by where
he’d dangled only a second before. The 7th-floor bell sounded.

The car maintained  its steady descent. Mitch squinted  across the shaft to the  2nd-floor doors and
likewise pushed himself away from the wall in their  direction. He, too, groaned from the blow as he
flung himself against  the metal doors. Stunned from the  blow, he managed to grasp onto  the lip at
the base of  the opening and pull  himself awkwardly up to the  small crack of light  that offered a
plausible escape.  Breathing hard, Mitch peered  out the half-inch  crack. There on the  floor below
three guards were cramming a  metal bar between the elevator doors in the  main lobby, trying to pry
them apart. Finding  a foot-hold between floors, he  grappled to push himself up  the slick metallic
surface. The old elevator above rang the 6th-floor  bell, and Mitch silently began counting down the
time between  floors in  order to measure  its rate of  descent. If  he measured wrong,  the massive
elevator 212 KEN MERRELL

would flatten him  like a nail on a railroad  track. Desperate for some sort of  pry bar, he plunged
his hand  into his  pocket to  extract Mike’s  badge. With the  fingers of  his other  hand wedged
between the doors, he lunged to grasp onto one of the greasy latches that cinched the doors closed.

The  5th-floor  bell  sounded,   followed  by  the  commotion  of  angry   men–or  of  caged  wild
animals–pounding frantically on  the stalled elevator’s trap door. The  banging resounded up and
down the shaft. The pounding and the cries for help were accompanied by the groanings of rusted door
latches as the pressing guards strained to liberate themselves from their confining prison.

From his  cumbersome vertical  stance, Mitch  put all  his weight  on the  latch, gouging  the badge
between the  doors. They barely budged.  Realizing the second door  latch needed to be  released, he
shuffled his feet to raise  his right leg. The 4th-floor bell rang. With  any luck theywon’t be on
the second floor, he thought–just as luck seemingly  ran out and the crumbling concrete toehold he
was on suddenly gave way underfoot.

Like the primary culprit in a bumbled trapeze act, Mitch hung helplessly from the latch, clinging on
by tooth and nail. Then he was falling, his  fingers still gripping tightly to the latch. Its handle
had broken off, sending  him tumbling back onto the lip from where  he’d begun. The 3rd-floor bell
sounded as he  clawed his way back  up and grabbed onto the  second latch, trying to  force the door
open. Simultaneously battering at the gap with the badge, the door opened a crack, enough for him to
jam two  fingers through.  With the  athletic prowess  of his  youth, Mitch  lifted himself  off the
ground, wriggled  the fingers  of his other  hand through  the widening gap,  and wrested  the doors
apart. A jumble of fidgety feet and legs of  patrons from the restaurant level met his initial gaze.
Only a two-foot space linked the upper section of  the elevator car and the floor of the restaurant.
Hoisting his  torso and  legs to safety,  he turned to  watch the  crippled elevator buzz  past. The
2nd-floor bell  gave a  loud ding, and  the heads  of the  dumbfounded diners turned  as one  in his
direction. He peered behind him once more, staring into the dark void. The ghastly sound of snapping
metal and anxious voices greeted the diners as Mitch  rolled to his hip, pressed his greasy hands to
the carpet and pushed himself to his feet.

“I’d use the stairs if I were you,” he panted, flashing the officer’s badge at

THE IDENTITY CHECK

213

the astonished  crowd. Dropping  it in  his pocket  and brushing his  hands on  his pants,  he added
offhandedly,  “The elevators–they’re  out of  order due  to the  fire on  the fifth  floor.”
Blackened face and filthy clothes confirmed his words as patrons spread the alarm: “Fire!”

214 KEN MERRELL

TWENTY-SIX

SHOWERS OF SPARKS WAFTING out and the turbulent

rumbling of snapping cables and electrical pops erupting from the opening only served to confirm the
dire situation.  Only seconds earlier  the man–the crackpot or  maniac–had reported fire  in the
elevator shaft. Now every eye in the room had converged on him.

Mitch fastened his greasy  hands on the elevator doors and wrestled them  closed. Calling out to the
crowd, he’d issued a  direct, authoritative command–a phrase he probably  heard on TV. “Please
don’t panic,  and exit  the building in  a calm manner.”  The directive  proved only to  fan the
flames of fear. Mass hysteria carried the day as anxious people rushed from the diningroom. Stepping
to the outdated glass-tube  fire alarm, Mitch took the pistol from his  pocket and smashed the glass
with the butt of the gun, then rammed the handle down. At once hundreds of ear-splitting fire alarms
chimed throughout the  casino and hotel, adding to  the chaos. Men and women darted  here and there,
following the exit signs. From every bedroom,  slot machine, blackjack table and roulette wheel they
came. Mitch appeared  to walk in slow motion  as he sauntered casually through the  kitchen door and
made for the employee exit.  Smiling and carefree, he pirated a carrot stick  from the salad bar and
popped it in his grease-stained mouth. Mr.Domenico won’t be smiling anymore.

Indeed, far up  in his posh 13th-floor office,  Vinnie’s fist slammed down hard  onto the desktop.
The mobster pirouetted on  his overstuffed executive chair and snatched his  pistol from his jacket,
firing three rounds  into the elevator doors.  The bullets formed a dense,  triangular pattern, each
hole about a half-inch apart,  and had perforated the metalclad doors at about  the same height of a
man’s head. Three  words slipped from Vinnie’s livid, bloodless  lips. “You’re dead, kid.”
He then picked up the phone. “He’s drivin’ a white Escort. Find him!”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

215

The A-team was scattered up the alley and down  the street, each posted at an assigned spot, keeping
an eye out  for the young man.  Nurse and Greg crouched  behind the carpet covering  of the shelter.
Fire trucks and sirens could  be heard in the distance. Closer by, the  tumult of fear reigned, with
Three Queens patrons spilling out into the night for several blocks.

“Looks to me like the rubber’s ‘bout  to hit the road, Sunny,” Nurse whispered. “‘Member
yet where you know the boy?”

“Sorry–still don’t know.”  Greg’s heart pounded in  his ears. He gazed out  at the bedlam.
“Doesn’t this scare you?”

“Nah, can’t  say it does. Jumpin’  from a movin’  train–now that’s plum scary.  And when
ya’ can’t  see where you’re landin’,  well I reckon  ‘at’s enough to scare  livin’ day
lights outta this pert-near  seventy-year-old woman.” She parted the carpet  door with her gnarled
hand. Greg  pondered the  silhouette the old  woman cast  against the open  crack. “You  jump from
trains?”

She turned an ear  to the opening, her other hand raised to  her delicate lips. “Shhh, someone’s
comin’. . . . Runnin’ hard,” she whispered. Greg cocked his head. He couldn’t hear a thing.

Mitch paused briefly at the edge of the parking structure and scanned the street behind him. Placing
a hand on the railing, he leapt effortlessly over, into the alley below. He tucked the bottom of his
shirt back in his pants  and started walking at a casual gait. Loose  gravel crunched under his feet
as he passed the power box in front of the shack.

“Hold it right  there!” a man’s voice boomed  from the parking lot. Mitch’s  heart skipped a
beat. His pace slowed. When the voice called out again, it had turned savage, predatory. “I swear,
kid, I’ll spread your measly brains all over the ground if you so much as move.”

Greg fidgeted nervously.  It felt like he was about  to wet his own pants. Nurse  placed a calloused
hand gently on his arm, warning him to hold still.

“On the ground–face down!” growled the fierce voice from above. Nurse had a full view of Mitch
now. Slowly he  knelt and lay spreadeagle on the  asphalt next to the power box.  Casting her cloudy
eyes upward, she could make out a pot-bellied  security guard clamber over the railing that bordered
the parking lot and start down the ramp. She  reached under her mattress and pulled out a three-foot
length of heavy-216 KEN MERRELL

walled pipe, kicked her  shoes from her feet, and patted  Greg on the arm as if to  tell him to stay
put.

The guard  hunkered over Mitch,  gloating over his  catch. “I gotcha,  punk. You got  twenty grand
that’s mine now.”

Mitch craned his neck upward to face his  captor. From the shadows, Nurse crept nearer, crouched and
wound up  for the  swing. The  guard lifted  the mouthpiece to  his radio  and pressed  the transmit
button. “I got him!

We’re in the alley.”

Like a  much more  seasoned David standing  against a  modern-day Goliath, Greg  looked on  as Nurse
expertly dropped the  man to the ground.  “‘At boy’s gonna hurt by  mornin’,” she whistled
through her lips. She turned to the disheveled young man, who was clambering from the ground. “You
Mitchell Wilson?”

Mitch, still edgy, squinted up and down the alley, then said, “Yeah, and who are you?”

“Name’s Nurse. Best  hurry, ‘fore ‘em others come.  My friends an’ I will  help ya’. Now
go!” The  old woman pointed  at the shack.  Mitch, beyond asking  questions, ran. Obeying  the old
woman’s commands, he crawled through the opening.  Inside, Nurse scooted herself back to the shack
and started  to disrobe.  Greg huddled  nearby; Mitch  remained speechless.  Who were  these people,
anyway? What kind of a  person could live like this? It was as if he’d  entered a whole new world.
Just down  the alleyway, Ritter was  lying sprawled at  the base of  the garage door to  Carson Auto
Body, an empty whisky bottle teetering at his side.

Nurse’s  eyes twitched  nervously  as she  peered  from their  hiding  place. “Strategy  ain’t
workin’ like we planned. Gotta improvise. Sunny,  pull ‘em clothes off. Mitchell, cover yourself
up an’ lay ‘long a wall–an’ don’t move a muscle.”

Greg’s voice was that of a little boy. “Clothes?”

“No time fer  explanations!” groused Nurse. “Get butt naked.”  She’d already stripped down
to a dirty bra and a pair of saggy boxer shorts. Greg turned his face. He was glad he couldn’t see
that well in the dark.

“When this here curtain opens,” Nurse went  on, whispering, “you start puttin’ ‘em back on
like you been  caught wit’ your hand in a  cookie jar.” She pulled a clip  from her matted hair,
which fell in a clump at her shoulders. “An’ make like you mean it!”

The sound of footsteps came from outside. “Over here!” someone yelled.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

217

“It’s Carl. Knocked cold.”

Another voice crackled, “Check behind the power box. See  if the old woman saw him.” A sliver of
a flashlight beam shot through the crack in the  curtain. Nurse got up and crouched at the entrance,
clutching her shirt to her chest. When the carpet  parted, a beam of light flashed across her naked,
sagging skin. As instructed,  Greg flew into action, scrambling and kicking to  pull his pants up to
his waist. The guard’s flashlight dropped onto the gravel, the curtain fell back into place, and a
succession of foul expletives  and gut-wrenching giggles split the night air.  The guard turned tail
and  slouched up  against  the power  box,  writhing in  agony and  amusement.  Clearly he’d  been
eyewitness to a peep-show that he wished he’d  never–ever–laid eyes on. A peek was bad enough;
the eyeful he’d been subjected to was too much for any man.

Between giggles, sobs and snorts, he finally came out with it. “The old woman’s got a man! . . .
That’s about the grossest  thing I ever seen!” Nurse parted the curtain  and sashayed out in her
boxer shorts. Five flashlight beams converged on her  white flesh as she struggled to snap the dingy
bra behind her back. Despite the many wrinkles, the almost transparent nature of her skin showed all
too well the purplish veins  running up and down her wiry legs and arms.  The lights glanced off her
chalky shoulders and stomach and reflected back into the guards’ eyes.

One of the men stepped closer to investigate. “Who’s in there with you?”

he demanded.

Greg  crawled from  the shack,  bare chested,  his skin  even whiter  than Nurse’s.  “Lemme help
you,” he drawled as he reached over and fastened the clasp of the old woman’s bra.

Nurse whisked  the hair from her  shoulder and turned to  face Greg with a  wide, toothless, girlish
grin. “Thanks,” she cooed amid the disgusted groans from the onlooking guards.

“He’s gettin’ away!”  a slurred voice called  from down the alley. Every  light beam altered
course, panning down  the lane on Ritter,  who staggered up to  them. “The bloke knocked  me on me
can!” he  mumbled. The bright  lights directed at  Ritter’s face brought his  arm in the  air to
shield his eyes.  One foot teetered sideways  in the air as he  tried to catch his  balance, then he
tumbled backwards and  toppled on the ground,  sending shards of broken bottle  scurrying across the
asphalt, dancing  to the music  of approaching sirens.  Two guards lit out  down the alley  past the
prone figure. The other three 218 KEN MERRELL

shook their  heads in  defeat and crouched  over their  fallen comrade. The  first big  fire engine,
followed by an ambulance, turned and eased down the narrow lane, its lights washing over Carl, still
lying  in the  road. Flashing  red and  blue lights  cast psychedelic  shadows on  the back  wall of
Nurse’s hut as she crawled back inside and wriggled her calf-length cotton dress over her hips and
up her  waist. Greg  stood guard by  the power  box as  the paramedics ministered  to both  Carl and
Ritter, who, respectively, were struggling to stand and  holding up an arm that had been bloodied by
the broken  bottle. Nurse squinted  back out the  opening, then leaned  over to Mitch  and whispered
through her  hand, “I ain’t tooken  my clothes off for  no man in fifty  years, Mitchell Wilson,
so’s you better have a wallopin’ good reason for havin’ a corpse in your trunk.”

Mitch lifted his head and blinked out from the edge of the blanket.

“How do you know who I am?”

“Never you mind, young fella, just start explainin’’. And not a word a’ lies, or I’ll have
ever’ cop in Vegas pointin’ his gun in yer face.”

Nurse drew her  thread-bare shirt around her bony  shoulders and pressed the velcro  together up the
front.

Mitch nestled his tired head back down onto the  warm concrete and let out a weary sigh. This brazen
little woman had just taken out a 300-pound guard  with a single blow, then bared her bony back side
to save his sorry  hide. After a moment’s hesitation, he croaked,  “I’m in serious trouble.”
His quavering, gravely  voice was tinged with an  air of confession. “Maybe it’s best  if you do
call the cops. I’d at least have a chance of staying alive to see my babies born.”

Nurse fumbled about in the shadows to find her shoes. “Keepin’

alive’s  what we  on the  street do  best.”  The old  woman’s crusty,  semihostile nature  had
softened. “My friends call me  Nurse.” She scooted a metal milk crate over  from the foot of her
bed and sat down to listen. Well after midnight, the last of the emergency vehicles pulled away from
the alley. Smitty had popped the lock at the back of Eddie’s Gym, and now the members of the Alley
Team were  reassembled in the  cramped confines of Eddie’s  bedroom. “Boy’s sleepin’  like a
baby,”

Nurse said as  she sat bathed in the pale  yellow glow of the old man’s  lamp. Cap’n slouched on
the limp mattress of Eddie’s bed, head wagging  in dissent. “We’s gonna bite a lot a’ cotton
if we take on Mr. Vinnie, face

THE IDENTITY CHECK

219

forward.” A puff of air  blew from his lips. “He’s got more money  an’ trash working for him
than we can fight. Probably even has a platoon a’ red communist working for him, too.”

Nurse tapped  on the  rickety bookcase that  skirted the  table around which  they met.  “What you
thinkin’, Sound?”

He smacked his lips,  pondering both their plight and his own personal  crisis. “Doctors told me I
had three good  months, if I was  lucky. That’s been almost  a year and I’ve  never felt better.
Since I met you guys,  I feel more alive than ever before. What’ve we  got to lose?” He shrugged
his shoulders and nodded at Smitty, who sat silently at his side. Everyone turned to the dull-witted
yet gifted lock-pick, who stroked his stringy beard  a few seconds before nodding his approval. Then
the group’s gaze  fell on Cap’n. The furrowed  brow and worried glare communicated  all too well
his objection.

Nurse stroked the table’s smooth surface with her rough fingers.

“We’ll come back to ya’ in a shake. How ‘bout you, Ritter?”

“You can count on me. I ain’t no coward.” He shot a glance at Cap’n.

“An’ I’m always up for a bloody-good fight.”

Cap’n sprang to his feet. “Who you callin’ a coward, you runty Englishman? You lookin’ for a
butt-kickin’? We already kicked your kin outta here once, and I’ll help do it again!”

Ritter skidded his chair  back from the table. “Bring it on, slog!”  he spat, slapping his chest
and dancing  on his  toes like a  prizefighter. Fed  up with the  British twit’s  bluster, Cap’n
lunged forward, just as Greg, who sat between the men, scooted back to block his path.

“You two  remind me  of a couple  of mating  blowfish,” he muttered,  his white  teeth flashing.
Everyone froze, staring at Greg, whose grin quickly faded. Apparently his manly first attempt to fit
in with the crowd wasn’t going over too well.

Cap’n instantly turned his wrath on Greg. “Who you callin’ a blowfish, rooky?”

Greg, surprisingly,  didn’t back down.  “Hey, I’m no  rooky–not anymore. Didn’t  you hear?
Tonight I got promoted to Major for sleeping with the Nurse.”

Sound placed  his hand over his  mouth. A hushed  gasp rose from  the group. Nurse reached  over and
rapped Greg on the chest. “‘At’s ‘nough, Sunny. Don’t need to go into any details.”

Ritter, taken aback by the bombshell, plopped back down on his chair. 220 KEN MERRELL

“Yeah, I thought I seen you half-naked, flashlights  shinin’ on you and all, but I didn’t have
me bloody glasses on!”

Nurse’s weathered face took on a slight blush. “We ain’t goin’ there,”

she grunted, trying to prod the discussion back to how to handle Vinnie.

“Did what had to be done in a pinch, ‘at’s all. Now . . .”

“I don’t know  . . .” interjected Greg,  his words doused in uncertainty. “How  many want to
finish talking about this subject?” He raised his  hand and the others followed suit. “Nurse saw
my keister the first day I met her; cut my pants right off it. Embarrassed poor little Belle half to
death.”

“She sure weren’t shy to lance a big boil on me back-side, neither,”

Ritter added, stifling a chuckle. “Come t’ think of  it, that also was the first time I ever met
her.” Nurse hid her  eyes with her hand from embarrassment. Not to  be outdone, Cap’n chimed in.
“Pulled a  patch a’ ingrown  hairs from  mine. Probably the  biggest black caboose  she’s ever
seen.”

The room filled  with laughter as Sound added his  poke. “Gave me a flu shot  last winter. Made me
take it–that’s right, folks–right in the rear! Insisted it was necessary to keep me well.”

Nurse dropped  her hand. “‘Taint  true,” she  spat, struggling to  keep a straight  face. “I
didn’t go out lookin’ fer you–you come to me!”

“But you enjoyed it, didn’t you now?”

Smitty, not one to be left out of the fun,  stood, turned his back to the room, and pulled his pants
part way down on one side, exposing his upper cheek.

“My land o’ seven  dwarfs!” Nurse cackled, her eyes wide and  youthful. “‘At boy’s th’
fairest of y’all. An’  not a single hair!” To roars of laughter,  Smitty hauled his pants back
up and flopped back down in his chair, a satisfied grin on his lips.

“You need a  bath, Snow White,” Greg snorted  between tears. Smitty shook his  head violently as
the room once more broke into a barrage of chortles and sighs.

Nurse’s hand cupped her slanted  mouth. “He ain’t had a bath as long as we  known ‘im. . . .
Like pullin’ teeth to get ‘im to the shelter once a week for a hot shower.”

Smitty, in turn, grabbed  hold of the base of his  chair with both hands as if  to say, “I ain’t
budging from this chair!”

It took five minutes for the Alley Team to regain control and wipe the

THE IDENTITY CHECK

221

tears from their  eyes. Nurse gave one last  chuckle. “I ain’t laughed like  ‘at for years,”
she said as she patted Greg on the leg. The  rest of the clan offered silent nods. “We’s glad to
have ya’ in  th’ family.” Greg reached out  and stroked the old women’s  hand. She’d saved
him from certain ruin. He was most grateful.

Nurse finally broke the silence. “Time we vote. Gotta decide if ‘at boy can join us or not.”

“Before we do,”  Sound interrupted, “did he tell you  how he got hooked up with  Mr. Vinnie in
the first place?”

“Did. . . .  Said the whole thing started one  night when he was tryin’ to  keep some drunk from
blowin’ his brains out. Took place just down under th’ viaduct, off th’ boulevard.”

Greg’s head sank to the table. “Oh, man . . .”

“What is it? asked Sound.

“That’s where I know him from. . . .  I’m the one he saved.” All present could’ve heard an
eyelash drop. “I didn’t think life was worth living  without my money and family. I remember . .
. he asked me what my  son would think. That set me to thinking. . .  . I owe him–and all you–my
life. . .” His voice trailed off.

All eyes fell to the floor. There was no longer need for a final vote. 222 KEN MERRELL

TWENTY-SEVEN

MITCHELL. MITCHELL WILSON–up an’ at ‘em!” Nurse

gently shook her newest recruit’s arm.

Mitch grunted,  yawned, rolled to his  hip, and leaned against  the wall before rubbing  the cobwebs
from his eyes. “Sorry–must’ve fallen asleep,” he mumbled. “Where was I?”

“No matter. We got  ‘portant business t’ discuss. Foller me an’  keep quiet. You’re hotter
‘n a cast iron skillet on blazin’ coals.”

Nurse drew the curtain and  waited for Mitch, who raised to his knees and  groped his way toward the
opening, bumping his head on  the low ceiling. A lump already on the back of  his head, he let out a
low moan.

“Gotta watch yer noggin, boy. Th’ room ain’t made fer standin’.”

Ashen-faced, Mitch stepped from the shelter. Nurse waited for the

“all clear” from Sound, who  was stationed at the back door of Eddie’s  gym, then lit out like
an alley cat crossing a  four lane highway. When the Alley Team had  convened once more in Eddie’s
bedroom, Nurse got right down to business. “Gotta  move quick. Ain’t safe here no more. Mitchell
Wilson, these ‘re my friends, an’ ever’ last  one’s ready t’ help ya’ get ‘at tar-baby
off yer back. Now I knows we don’t look  like much more ‘an a one-legged man in a butt-kickin’
contest, but you seen  what we does in a pinch. Got street  smarts–th’ kind Mr. Vinnie’s never
seen ‘fore. So you want us t’ help ya’, just say so. If not, Ritter an’ Sound here’ll show
ya’ t’ yer car and getcha on yer way.” Ritter nodded; Sound, his head tucked into his skeletal
shoulders, raised  one hand  from his lap  in a gentle  hello. Nurse  drew her lips  tight. Everyone
turned expectantly to  hear what the young man’s answer  would be. Like a new law  team with their
first client,  they waited.  Mitch lowered  his head,  rubbed his  eyes, scrunched  up his  face and
struggled to form his words.  “It’s not . . . that I don’t appreciate what  you did for me out
there, but . . .” Greg carefully watched the body language of the team as Mitch spoke: Sound

THE IDENTITY CHECK

223

put his  hand under his chin  to keep his  pointed chin from  falling into his hollow  chest; Ritter
folded his arms as if  he bore some sort of grudge; Smitty, his  arms wrapped around himself, tugged
on his beard; Cap’n, the squad’s second in  command, stood stone-faced, the veins popping on his
forehead; and Nurse chomped her gums and focused the best she could on the prattling young man. “.
. . but I don’t know a thing about you and . . .”

Ritter slid his  chair out across the floor behind  him and opened his mouth to  speak. Nurse raised
her  fingers and  pretended to  zip her  mouth shut,  then motioned  for him  to sit  down. The  old
matriarch paused and once more turned to Mitch, motioning  for him to finish his thoughts. “ . . .
and I could never ask you  to put your lives in danger for me. I don’t  think you have a clue what
you’re up against.”

Nurse’s lips broke into a big smile. “Been hopin’ you’d say somethin’

like ‘at. Now  I wanna introduce my friends  proper-like.” She pointed to the  big military man,
sitting at her  left. “Cap’n here’s ‘bout the  strongest fella I ever met, yet  he’s got a
heart a’ gold. While’s you ‘n’ me were havin’

our talk, he was out on the street learnin’ what he could. Tell ‘im, Cap’n.”

Cap’n jerked down hard on the front of his open coat, snapping it against his chest. “Seems some
young dude disabled  two a’ the three elevators at  Three Queens, ‘fore he started a  whale of a
panic–somethin’ ‘bout a 5thstory  fire. Word’s out that the phantom might  be some sort a’
Federal agent. Had a gun and everything. Management don’t  have a clue who the guy is, but all the
bouncers and security guards say he’s got forty-grand on his head.”

Nurse  nodded her  approval.  Then  she turned  to  the  middle-aged guy  coiled  up  on his  chair.
“Ritter?”

“The Guard’s name’s Carl–‘at’s the one that  had his bloomin’ gun pointed at your head
last night. The ol’ boy’s  got a chipped tooth and a broken jaw. Thinks  there were two a’ you
in on the whole bloody thing and were trying to steal Mr. Vinnie’s car. Rest o’ the guards think
the old woman in the  alley has a mate.” Ritter refolded his arms across  his chest to signify his
report was complete. Greg, sitting at Nurse’s right, leaned over and put his arm around her waist,
a leering grin planted on his lips. The rest of the team snickered as the old woman shooed him away.
Mitch smiled from the lingering embarrassment of having seen the old woman’s backside.

Sound started in  before Nurse even acknowledged him.  “The maids say that someone fired  a gun in
Mr. Vinnie’s thirteenth-floor suite. 224 KEN MERRELL

Some say three  shots, others say four.” He  gesticulated with his hands as  he spoke, pantomiming
each point he  made in frenetic circles and  jabs, as would a musical conductor.  “Mr. Vinnie told
the police it must’ve been the commotion in  the elevator they heard. The police don’t even have
a suspect to charge the false alarm to, and  Mr. Vinnie couldn’t . . . or wouldn’t help them.”
The thin fellow slapped  his hands on his knees. “Oh, and my  name–since I became homeless, that
is–is ‘Sound.’ I used to work as an electronics specialist.”

“Our friend Smitty here’s a locksmith.” Nurse pointed to the mute man. “Worked for his daddy
‘til th’  poor ol’ man died.  Can’t say much, but  don’t mean he’s dumb  like ever’one
says. Just does more thinkin’

than th’ rest a’ us.”

Smitty opened his  mouth in a gaping smile,  baring his black and rotting teeth,  nodded and offered
his hand in friendship, then shook Mitch’s hand vigorously.

“An’ Sunny here, you already met a short time back.” Nurse gave Greg a pat on the leg.

“My real name’s Greg Hart,” he said as he uncrossed his legs and blinked back the tears. Mitch
stared hard in the room’s dim light, past Greg’s bristly chin, peeling skin, scruffy clothes and
greasy hair.  The man  stared earnestly  back at  him. “I  owe you,”  Greg continued,  “and my
friends here, my life. Thank you . . .” He  stood and took a step across the small circle to offer
his hand. “I hope you’ll forgive me for the pain I’ve caused.”

Mitch stood to return the gesture. “I found you. . . . I mean . . .”

Greg, full of emotion, leaned forward and took the young man in his embrace.

“A’right,” said  Ritter. “‘At’s enough a’  your bloody love-makin’. We  gonna get on
with a fight, o’ what?”

“Ahh, leave them alone,”  Sound replied, then pressed his hand to his  mouth to suppress a yawn.
“I thought it was rather sweet.”

Cap’n smoothed his bearded face  with his massive hand and likewise let out  a shallow shriek of a
yawn. Smitty silently imitated the gesture.

Nurse intervened. “Don’t let a sheep out yet, boys. Got work t’ do

‘fore ya’ hit them  downy pillows.” She turned back to face Mitch.  “Well, young fella. What
you got to say now?”

Mitch squirmed in his seat as he tried to organize his words into a posi-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

225

tive phrase. “Well, I’m definitely impressed with your, uh, resourcefulness.

. . . And . . . well, I’m . . .”

“Spit it out, boy. Ya’ gonna cast your lot with us? Yes ‘r no?” Cap’n demanded.

“Yes . . . And I think we can bring Vinnie down.”

“Think? ” Cap’n and Nurse uttered in unison. Cap’n pounced first.

“If we go to war, we might not be comin’ back.”

Nurse jumped in the moment Cap’n paused for a breath. “An jus’

cause we’s crazier ‘an a rubber crutch don’t  mean we can’t whoop ‘at young pot-licker and
send ‘im packin’ with his tail ‘tween his legs.”

She smacked her fist in her open hand. “Now get goin’, boys. You’re movin’ slower ‘an cold
tar in winter goin’ up hill.”

When Mitch got up to  leave, Nurse took him aside for a word. “Young  fella,” she said, her face
serious, “I thin’ ‘Mitchell Wilson’ just disappeared fer a season or two. We’ll call ya’
‘Greased Lightnin’  for now  on. Be  best no  one but your  close friends  here knows  your real
name.” She took him by the arm and gently directed him toward the door. “So, Lightnin’,” she
called out to the group, “got anythin’ else ‘sides your friend in ‘at car you need

‘fore we torch it?”

Ritter’s eyes lit up. “Aright! Haven’t lit a bloody-good fire in years.”

“Sorry, Ritter, you needs to get Eddie’s ol’ truck runnin’. Smitty’ll start th’ fire and
Cap’n’ll  get th’  body outta  the trunk.  Now, young  fella, like  I was  sayin’, you  need
anythin’ from ‘at car?”

“My suitcase. . . . Oh, and the phone in the glove box.”

“You heard ‘em, now get th’ lead out,” the old woman scolded.

“Hey, I could fix the truck,” Mitch offered.  “And we might want to hide Mike’s car–it’s
still parked out front.”

Nurse paused in thought. “Come on, Nurse,” Ritter begged. “Let me blow the roof off his bloody
garage. I swear, I  ain’t about to get nobody hurt.  I’m a pro at fires; if  I light it, it’ll
look like a blasted accident. Sound’ll start a torch like an amateur fire bug’s had one too many
brews.”

“He’s right, you know,” remarked Sound. “I’ve never lit a building on fire before.”

Greg couldn’t  believe his  ears. “I’m not  very comfortable with  arson,” he  finally said.
“We could all go to jail for a very long time.”

Nurse shook her head. “Ain’t likely. The place’s been scheduled for demolition since December.
I been scroungin’ through Mr. Vinnie’s trash a 226 KEN MERRELL

long time. Seems he’s been stallin’ so’s t’  keep his business runnin’. I just ain’t had
th’ nerve t’ tell  nobody ‘cause I didn’t want ol’ Eddie endin’  up on th’ street like
we is. Word is, whole darn block’s comin’ down t’ make room fer a new casino.”

“Doesn’t Mr. Vinnie own the property?” Greg asked.

“Far as I can  tell, some big corporation back ‘n Jersey does.  Now if’n you and Lightnin’ll
watch th’ alley an’ fix  ‘at ol’ truck, it just might keep you  from bein’ part a’ th’
trouble. I gotta go get my papers. The Reverend  said they’d come in handy one day.” She hurried
off to her shack.

Ritter, Cap’n and Smitty strolled casually down the  alley. Stopping in front of Carson Auto, they
glanced around to making sure they were alone. After Smitty worked his magic on the lock, the garage
door slid up  a few feet and each crawled  inside. Near the power box outside  Nurse’s shack, Greg
hunkered down to keep watch, while Sound waited on the far end, down past the body shop.

Meanwhile, in  the side alley  beyond Nurse’s hideout,  Mitch opened the  squeaky door to  the old
pickup and checked  the ignition for a key. A  quick probe under the ashtray, behind  the visor, and
finally under the  rubber floor mat produced a  single key that fit the ignition.  Mitch pressed the
floorboard starter down and listened to the old engine crank over, then cough and die.

In a  matter of  a minute Mitch  had removed the  battery cables,  cleaned the connections  with his
pocketknife, pressed  them tightly back on  their posts and  reclosed the cover in  the floorboards.
Turning the key again,  the battle-worn truck backfired, sputtered, and finally  roared to life. The
steady rumble  was pure combustible  music to Mitch’s  ears. He tapped the  dash and shut  off the
engine. “They sure don’t make them like this any more.”

Inside the  hut, Nurse, a penlight  wedged between her lips,  transferred papers from one  old metal
milk crate to another,  until all her personal information was crammed  into one highly disorganized
vagrant file system. She gathered up the motheaten  wool blanket from the bare mattress and, wadding
it up in  her arms, fed it  out the curtain near where  Greg sat. “Sunny,” she  whispered in her
gruff old voice.  Greg took a step toward the  hut as she shone her light  from between the curtain.
“Sunny!” she repeated, a bit louder.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

227

“I’m here,” Greg answered.

“Take the blanket down  th’ alley an’ tell Cap’n to wrap up  Lightnin’s friend so it looks
like he was sleepin’. An tell Ritter  we’s gotta hurry–he ain’t writin’ no college thesis,
you hear?”

Greg wandered down the alley and rapped lightly on the garage door. By the reflective light from the
parking structure he could see Smitty’s eyes, shoot back and forth like a guilty school boy caught
in the teacher’s lounge.

The door rolled up a foot and Smitty’s smiling face peered out from below. “Give this to Cap’n
and  have him  wrap the  body in  it,” Greg  whispered, thrusting  the blanket  underneath. Smitty
nodded, then pulled the door down with a soft thud. As Greg turned around he was startled by a harsh
banging on the  glass pane in the side  door. Cap’n’s enormous white eyes stared  wildly out the
window. “Here’re  the keys to  the car out  front,” he said  through the glass.  “And Ritter
needs a candle; ask Nurse,” he ordered. “Then bring  that truck down here so we can move out the
troops.”

Greg slid the keys under the door and stepped sharply up the alleyway. From the other direction came
Nurse,  bent over,  dragging her  crate, on  her  way to  the pickup  point. Mitch  jumped from  the
driver’s seat and offered to lend a hand, then hurriedly jumped back in the truck–having been on
the blunt end of a hushed reprimand to stay out of sight.

After  the old  woman returned  and rummaged  through  her hut  one more  time, she  emerged with  a
half-burnt candle about  four inches long and  a single match. “Sunny,”  she whispered, pressing
the candle and match forward, “tell ‘em boys  to wait ‘til we pull th’ truck alongside th’
door. Them guards are due to make rounds. An’  tell Ritter this here’s my only match, so make it
count. Then get ‘at dead boy’s car outta sight.  Ya’ never know when it might come in handy. .
. . And make sure ya’ shove th’ keys up th’ tail pipe.”

Once again  Greg skulked down the  alley, feeling more  like a messenger  boy on wall street  than a
homeless executive.  A light rap  on the  door again produced  Smitty’s smiling face,  followed by
Cap’n’s harsh  stare. The door slid  up and Greg passed  the match and candle  underneath, along
with Nurse’s whispered instructions.  Ten minutes later Greg sat on the passenger  side of the old
Ford pickup, Mitch on the driver’s side, with Nurse sandwiched in between, her 228 KEN MERRELL

bent legs straddling the stick shift. Mike’s car  was parked safely in Three Queens’ garage. The
old woman whispered over to Mitch, reminding him to keep an eye on the parking structure through the
cloudy rearview mirror.

“Them parking lot boys have a favorite peep show  on cable. Don’t get out on their rounds ‘til
‘bout two. I can hear ‘em walk-in’ overhead  ever’ night, same time. But ya’ never know. .
. .” She gave Mitch a poke in the ribs with her bony elbow. “What time you got?”

Mitch squirmed in his seat and pressed the light on his watch. “Five till.”

“We’ll  wait ‘til  ten after.  No sayin’  if’n your  shenanigan changed  their routine  or
not.”

Inside the dark garage, Ritter crawled out from under the Escort and spanked the dust from his pants
and  shirt. “‘At  ought’a bloodywell  do it,”  he said  with the  pride of  a college  grad.
Carefully pinching the lone match between his thumb and  index finger, he struck it on the floor. It
sparked, then blazed into  a tiny flame. “Twenty minutes, plus or minus  two, I’d bet the family
pub on it.”

Cap’n bristled in  anger. “You stupid redcoat,” he  growled. “I told you that  were our only
match! You were supposed t’ wait ‘til th’ truck came.”

Ritter finished lighting the  candle and bit his cheek to hold back  the scathing barrage of insults
that had  formed on  his tongue. The  serious nature of  the task  at hand and  Cap’n’s imposing
stature seemed the only things  holding it at bay. He and Cap’n had  never gotten along that well.
If he let  loose now, it would surely  explode into violence. Something more important  was about to
explode.  In fact,  a puddle  of gas  was dripping  from the  gas-tank and  spreading slowly  in the
direction of the lit candle, which Ritter had stuck firmly to the floor by a few drops of wax.

“You stupid redcoat . . .” Cap’n repeated.

The volatile words proved to be the last spark. Already at the end of his fuse, Ritter now unleashed
his barrage, full-bore. “You always callin’

me a redcoat!” he  howled. “Kind of like callin’ the kettle black,  ain’t it? Big strong boy
like you, and your own army don’t even want you.”

He rose to  full height and slapped his chest  with both hands. “Come on, let’s  bloody end this
right here. Last man standing walks away, the other stays–gets burned to a crisp!”

Singed to the core  by the racial smears, Cap’n’s already smoldering  temper blew. He bullrushed
his longtime rival, shouting, “Don’t no white

THE IDENTITY CHECK

229

man call me boy! An’ you, redcoat, is gonna be the one that gets burned!”

Ritter doubled his fist and took a swing. Cap’n lifted his own brawny hand and snatched the flying
fist out of  the air. Giving it  a vicious shake, he  squeezed down hard. Bones  popped like brittle
tooth-picks. The pain dropped the Englishman to his knees and a blood-curdling scream could be heard
rattling the rafters. Smitty, standing watch at the garage door, began stomping his feet up and down
like a Mexican  hat dancer with his pants  on fire. Cap’n looked  up, his face that of  a child in
shock. He released  his crushing grip and pushed  Ritter away with a final  warning: “Settle down,
ya’

hear?” Ritter  slumped onto the grimy  concrete, writhing in  agony, his hand cradled  against his
stomach.

Cap’n went to see  what all the commotion was about. Smitty,  wideeyed and panic-stricken, pointed
frantically out the window  towards the parking garage. The mute’s troubled  gaze shifted back and
forth  between the  cowering Ritter  and  some horrible  scene  outside the  window–where, in  the
early-morning shadow, a security  guard patrolled the parking lot. Turning sharply  on his toes, the
guard’s gaze fell on  the garage door. A moment passed, whereupon he  turned away and continued on
his rounds.  Cap’n knelt  over his suffering  colleague. “Sorry, Ritter.  Didn’t mean  to hurt
ya’. But you shouldn’t ought’a a’ done that.”

Still clutching  his broken hand,  Ritter moaned and  rocked side to side  on the floor.  Finally he
managed to mutter, “You broke me hand, you . . . you bloody, dumb ox!”

Cap’n looked  on sheepishly. “Weren’t  on purpose. You  made me mad.  Shouldn’t ought’a’
swung on me . . .”

Slumped inside  the cab of the  truck Mitch and  Nurse watched as  the guard ambled up  the employee
parking ramp and out of sight.

“Looks like he’s gone,” Mitch finally said, half holding his breath.

“Should we go?”

Nurse held up her finger. “Ten seconds more.”

Mitch subconsciously counted in  his head, then started the old truck,  which rolled backwards until
it was fully  into the alley. He tried  to shift gears. The transmission groaned  in protest. “The
clutch is  gone–or maybe the  syncro,” he  muttered, shutting off  the engine. “I’ve  got to
drive it with the motor.”

Nurse fidgeted. “Whatcha mean? We’s sittin’ ducks if ya’ don’t get 230 KEN MERRELL

movin’.”

“Don’t worry.” Mitch slammed the shifter into first, turned on the key and pressed the starter
pedal to the floorboard.  The truck lurched ahead. “If the battery’ll hold  out, I’ll drive it
like a trucker.”

“An if’n it don’t?”

“We’ll have  to get out and  push.” Its motor whining,  the old truck bounced  down the alley,
lights out, and lurched to a stop in front of the garage door.

Inside, Smitty  turned to the  apologetic Cap’n  and snapped his  fingers, then motioned  with his
hands like he was driving a truck. Their ride  had arrived. Cap’n hoisted the cursing Ritter up on
his feet. “We’s  got to get out of this  building ‘fore she blows. Smitty, get  your tail over
here. Grab this here suitcase and open the door.”

Smitty shuffled quickly around the men to retrieve  the suitcase while Cap’n bent to the grim task
of removing Mike’s body from  the trunk. Effortlessly, he lifted it and lay  it gently down on the
wool blanket. After  wrapping both ends in  on top of the stiff  corpse, he flung the  load onto his
shoulder. Ritter was  first to the door. Still  hunched over nursing his hand, he  scanned the alley
and waited for  Smitty to lift the overhead door.  By now a cloud of fumes  had collected inside the
structure. The  strong smell  of boiling oil  and gas  grew more noxious  with each  passing moment.
Gasoline steadily dripped  from the car’s pierced  fuel line, forming an  evergrowing puddle. From
beneath the car tires, it spread ever closer to the flickering candle.

Cap’n approached the door with his grisly load.  All at once he reeled around, sending the blanket
billowing open. Just inches from the end of  his nose, Ritter found himself staring into the ghastly
face of the fallen agent. Again, the Englishman’s blood started to boil. “Smitty,”

urged Cap’n.  “Don’t forget the phone.  Said it’s in  the glove box.” Smitty  retraced his
steps to the car, now a ticking time bomb.  Meanwhile, outside the door Greg climbed from the pickup
and pressed his face up  to the window to see what was holding up the  three firebugs. From down the
alley, Sound had  stepped into the faint  light, his hands held  high in the air,  rambling on about
“not having a clue to what the officer was  referring to.” Then the figure of the security guard
loomed  from the  shadows, his  gun trained  on  Sound’s chest.  Seeing what  was happening,  Greg
motioned Ritter and Cap’n back away from the window.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

231

“I  thought I  heard someone  back here,”  the guard  stated matter-of-factly  as he  forced his
captive over  next to the driver’s  window. “Looks like  I caught you bums  stealin’ Eddie’s
truck.” He tugged a flashlight from his hip and aimed its beam directly into Mitch’s face. Mitch
raised his hand to cover his eyes.

“Steal,  my hide,”  Nurse hollered  from one  seat  over, like  she was  deaf. “Can’t  steal
somethin’ you been borrowed. ‘Sides, this ol’ truck’s worse ‘an a dog can’t scratch.”

The guard sized up the man behind the wheel, demanding, “And who are you?”

Nurse tore into the guy. “You ever been sued for pointin’ a gun?”

she growled. “See, this here’s Eddie’s grandson from back east where them rich folk live. Came
to Vegas to see  his dyin’ grand-daddy, and now you’s pointin’ ‘at  big ugly piece at ‘im.
His  daddy owns  th’ biggest  law firm  in Boston,”  she rattled  on, lying  between her  teeth.
“Can’t say  for sure,  but my  bet is  when he hears  ‘bout you  he’ll be  filin’ criminal
charges too!”

While all heck  was heating up outside,  inside the garage it  had become hot in  the literal sense.
Cap’n, Ritter and Smitty flattened up against the front door, primed for escape. Mike’s body and
the suitcase lay  on the floor near the bay  door. “Looks to me like that  twenty minutes is about
up,”

Cap’n rumbled. “Bad timin’ and your rotten temper’s gonna get Nurse killed if we don’t get
out a’ the trenches and go hand-to-hand combat.”

With that, he catapulted Ritter out into the street.

“Shut up, you old bag,” barked the guard. “This guy’s probably the one Mr. Domenico’s been
lookin’ for. You had him out here the whole time, hidin’ in the alley? Look at him. Still greasy
from his monkey business in  the elevator shaft. If I got the right guy,  I just earned myself forty
grand.”

Greg, slouched in the bed of the truck, joined in, trying to persuade the guard he was in the wrong.
“Before you  fly off  and do  somethin’ you’ll be  sorry for,  officer,” he  drawled, “you
better consider what she’s sayin’. He was just  workin’ on this old truck, that’s all, so we
can go  see his grandpa.  I seen what  happens to  someone like you  that points his  weapon without
probable cause. You’re a civilian  just like we are, hired by Three Queens  to keep the peace. The
only difference is you  got a permit to carry a  gun and we don’t. Same thing  happened to me last
year workin’ at the Palace. I got carried away with my weapon–lost my job, then lost my wife and
family from the civil  suit filed by some drugged-up attorney. Now look  at me–homeless, just like
my friends here.”

232 KEN MERRELL

The guard wavered, then slid his gun back in  his holster and inched away from the truck, projecting
his beam from Greg to  Mitch, and back to Greg. No one here was  being aggressive or acting flighty.
“Forty grand? Not worth it,” he said as he  reached for his radio. But I’m gettin’ some help
down here.”

The thunder of  army boots slapping the pavement  and the rustle of Cap’n’s  coat echoed through
the alley.  Rattled, the guard fumbled  with his gun, flashlight,  and radio. Before he  could fully
spin around, Cap’n  had raised him off  the ground in a  suffocating bear hug. As  from a ruptured
balloon, a torrent of air rushed from the  guard’s lungs. Sound reached out and caught the falling
gun; the flashlight and radio clattered to the asphalt.

“‘At’s enough,  Cap’n,” Nurse  called out,  grabbing onto the  steering wheel  and pulling
herself over  to the window.  The guard, his  lungs unable to take  in a breath,  kicked helplessly.
“Cap’n,”  she  again cried,  “‘at’s  ‘bout  enough!”  Seeing that  Cap’n  wasn’t
responding to her pleas, she pushed at Mitch. “Open this door!” she shrieked. Mitch scrambled to
get out of her way.

Sound tugged  in vain at  the big man’s  green flak jacket. “You’re  going to kill  him!” he
screamed. “Let go . . . let go.”

Nurse’s feet  hit the ground.  “Laurence Elroy Jackson, your  mama’s gonna whip  your backside
with grandpa’s cane, ‘less you put ‘at boy down. Now you let go, you hear!”

The big black man’s face softened and his arms relaxed. The guard slumped to the ground, a wet rag
on  a washboard,  unconscious from  lack of  air. “Sorry,  Lou,” he  whimpered, blinking  at the
collapsed guard,

“you shouldn’t ought t’ve pointed your gun at my dog.”

Nurse took  a handful of his  coat. “Cap’n, this ain’t  Lou, and you ain’t  sixteen no more.
Ya’ done good–we just don’t want ‘im dead, is all. Now, hurry up. Put ‘im in the back a’
th’ truck. It’ll be better if he ain’t here when th’ garage goes.”

The  Alley  Team  tore into  action,  clambering  to  toss  all  the  tools, the  suitcase  and  the
bodies–which now  numbered two–into the  truck. Just as  the bottom of  the garage door  hit the
concrete, Ritter began to squeal, “It’s gonna blow any second!”

Greg leaped into the driver’s seat and forced  the starter to the floor. The truck convulsed, then
stalled. “We’ve got to push!”  he shouted. Just then the inside of the  garage lit up from the
glow of sparks meeting

THE IDENTITY CHECK

233

compressed fumes and boiling gas.

Cap’n bounded from the back of the truck and ordered everyone to stay inside. Heaving his enormous
shoulder against its rusty back fender, he began  to push. With a little speed, the truck’s engine
popped and gunned to life.  Cap’n jumped onto the back of the careening truck  as it shot down the
alley.

Three blocks  from Carson’s Auto  Body, the A-team  gazed back at the  billowing ball of  fire and
smoke that  heaved into  the old  downtown sky. Through  the frenetic  black morning,  Las Vegas’s
unremitting casino lights shimmered on. 234 KEN MERRELL

TWENTY-EIGHT

FORD’S  MEAT PROCESSING  & Frozen  Food Locker  Plant faced  the tracks  off Colorado  Street. The
crumbling brick building had long served as an icon  to the homeless. Melburn Ford had run the plant
since the  ‘50s, when his  father passed the  family business down.  Every winter, after  Mr. Ford
filed notice  on the delinquent locker  rentals, he’d systematically–one each  day–emptied the
contents of the various lockers onto the docks near the dumpster.

On any given winter day, if they arrived in the wee hours of the morning, those veteran vagrants who
were aware  of the arctic buffet  could sort through various  cuts of meats, frozen  vegetables, ice
cream, prepared  pasta dishes,  and every  other imaginable  frozen food.  Some had  suffered slight
freezer burn, other items were fuzzy with frost, and others were simply unmarked and unidentifiable.
Yet most was edible.

The  county health  department  had unsuccessfully  sued  old-man Ford  for  distributing such  food
products without  proper government inspections.  But in  his methodical, old-fashioned  manner, Mr.
Ford had simply reputed all  charges by claiming the food needed to be  partially thawed in order to
avoid freezing  to the  walls of  the dumpster  and becoming too  difficult to  extract. He  was not
responsible to post guards at his trash receptacle any  more than the next business. At one time the
health department  had posted their  own people at  the dumpster to  chase away the  unwanteds. This
lasted for  only a short  time, however, largely  due to the fact  that old-man Ford  simply stopped
dumping at regular intervals and left a small garbage can either upright or turned down on the dock,
thus inviting his friends  to come–or not–the following morning. The  health department was none
the wiser to the clever scheme.

Nurse pointed out to Mitch where to park at  the back of the dilapidated storage building. Once more
she craned her neck to check the bed of the truck to assure the Three Queens guard was still soundly
cuffed, tied and

THE IDENTITY CHECK

235

blindfolded. No  longer unconscious, his flinching  jaw communicated a clear  combination of outrage
and foreboding.

The truck pulled behind the building. No one spoke.  Sound took hold of the guard’s one arm, Mitch
the other, and they hauled him from the truck and  led him to the front door of the locker entrance.
After waiting several moments, Smitty raced around  the building, rattled the door, then dropped his
pick set to the knob, freeing the brass bolt.  The cold, stale air from the monstrous freezer system
blew across their faces when the old wooden door swung inward.

When the gag was removed, the guard immediately blurted out,

“Wh–where’re we going?”

“Shh,” Mitch hushed.  “We’re not going to  hurt you; we just need  to lock you up  for a few
hours. The owner will be in by morning and let  you out.” He guided him through the dark office to
a dimly lit and very long hallway. Metal lockers lined each side.

“You can’t do this,” the guard insisted. “This is kidnapping.”

Mitch peered down at  the name-tag on the guard’s pocket. “Earl, we’re  not the bad guys–and
you  shouldn’t have  pulled  your gun  on  us.  The guy  that’s  going down  is  your boss,  Mr.
Domenico.” That said, Mitch  pulled the guard’s hands up and uncoupled one  of his arms from the
handcuffs. Then  he dropped  the cuff through  the metal handle  to a  locker and latched  his wrist
again.

In  the  meantime, Cap’n–Mike’s  blanket-covered  body  slung  over his  shoulder–had,  with
Smitty’s help, entered through the basement door at  the back of the building. Nurse had been busy
opening and closing each of the storage lockers in the basement.

“This one here  ought’a do it,” she announced,  peering up at the locker’s  number: 418. She
waved Greg over to help unload the freezer’s contents onto the floor.

Five minutes  passed. At last, fingers  numb from the  cold, Greg set  down the last of  the wrapped
packages of meat and looked on as Cap’n lugged  Mike’s body to the back of the freezer. There he
arranged his load, bending the Federal agent’s stiffened elbows and knees into a fetal position.

Nurse lowered her head. “We promise, friend, ya’ won’t  be here long. Soon as we can put blame
on the  man responsible for yer  murder, we can bury  ya’ proper like. Flowers,  tears, a preacher
t’ say pretty words an read from th’ good book. . . . We’ll make sure it’s done right.”

236 KEN MERRELL

“Amen,” Cap’n whispered over the rhythmic hum  of the refrigeration units. “And like my mama
used to say, rest in peace with them angels above.”

Nurse pointed to  the mound of packaged meat and  gestured to Cap’n and Greg to  begin stacking it
tightly around  the body, and soon  the corpse was completely  obscured by the screen  of steaks and
rump roasts.

“Now, with a little luck, whoever keeps this here  meat in number 418 won’t be havin’ no fancy
southern barbeques. If’n  they does, I’m ‘fraid  our friend’s gonna crash  the party.” She
tucked her  hands under her armpits  and shivered. “Burr, this  here cold ain’t good  for an old
woman’s rheumatism.”

Outside the larger freezer  upstairs, Mitch lay the guard’s flashlight and gun  on the front desk.
The radio he clipped  to his own belt. Pulling a  heavy winter coat off a coat  rack near the cooler
entrance, he returned to where the guard was tied up. “The place opens at eight, Earl,” he said,
bundling the coat around the man’s shoulders and  lifting the hood over his ears. “That’s less
than four hours. If you start to get cold, keep moving.”

Earl studied his captor. “Why’s Vinnie got a price on you?” Mitch didn’t answer. “You’re
the one he’s after, aren’t you?”

Mitch took hold of the strings that hung down from the front of the hood and drew it down tight over
Earl’s bald head. “Sorry if my friend hurt  you. Now remember, keep moving.” The guard nodded.
Mitch shut the locker door and walked past Sound, who waited to secure the front door.

“You’re a real  nice guy,” Sound whispered.  “The man was going  to turn us all  over to Mr.
Vinnie.”

“He’s a pawn. Doesn’t know much of anything.  Probably has to work nights and weekends just to
feed his family. I’ll bet he doesn’t have any clue Three Queens is being demolished.”

“You’re probably right.” The thin  man yawned. “All I want is a soft  bed, silk pj’s and a
down pillow like the old  days.” His voice faded off as he crawled back into  the bed of the truck
and lay his head on the splintered wooden slats.

Ritter, meanwhile,  was perched on the  front bumper, still  coddling his broken hand.  Mitch leaned
against the fender and listened.

“I  ain’t never  seen the  big ox  lose his  bloody temper  ‘fore,” Ritter  carped bitterly.
“Didn’t realize I been playing wit a bloomin’ stick a’

dynamite all these months.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

237

Mitch responded simply with an “uh-uh” and a nod.

“I ought to know  better than to play wit’ fire  by now, too. Gives me a  high on adrenalin that
takes a week to come down from. It’s like a smack a’

glass.”

Mitch looked on without a hint of what the brooding man was talking about.

The Englishman rattled on.  “Not that I been usin’ or nothin’. Been  clean since ‘96. I been
talkin’ right  big since  ‘fore I skipped  England in ‘72.  And here  me is, right  sod, an’
nothin’ but  a 47-year-old addict livin’  on the bloody streets  a’ Vegas. Time I  changed all
that. ‘Bout t’

hit me the lotto, an’ maybe settle an old score wit me kid brother.”

Nurse,  Greg and  Cap’n surfaced  from  the basement  and  gathered around  Mitch. “So  what’s
next?” asked Greg.

Nurse shrugged her stooped shoulders. “Don’t rightly know. Got any ideas?”

Greg’s eyebrows raised a whole half inch. “You don’t know?”

“Been doin’ pretty good by the seat a’ our pants, ain’t we?”

“We have, but we’ve  got to put a plan together  if we want to win instead of  just get away. We
need to know where we’re going.”

“Well, Mister smarty-pants, ya’ think ya’ know so much, tell us what we ought’a do.”

Mitch leaned away from the fender, stretching his sore back. “I think we all need a good night’s
sleep before we decide anything. I’ve got twentygrand under the seat of the truck. It won’t hurt
to spend a couple hundred on a hotel room or two, get a hot shower, a good night’s sleep. . . .”

Smitty nodded ‘no’ to the idea of a shower and ‘yes’ to a good night’s sleep. Sound lifted
his head from the truck bed. “Did you say hotel? I’m in.”

Nurse shook her head. “No reason t’ get soft just ‘cause we’s got money now.”

Greg begged to differ. “I think we should sack out  for a day. We need time to plan, anyway. Plus,
if we’re going to carry out our mission, we need to renew our strength.”

Cap’n looked over at Nurse, then scanned the little band of vagrants.

“I agree with Nurse,” he said. “We don’t need no hotel. We can stay at my place under 15.”
Smitty nodded in agreement.

Nurse did a  quick tally. “So ‘at makes three  ‘at wants t’ go t’ a  hotel, an three ‘at
don’t. Ritter, what about you?”

238 KEN MERRELL

“Don’t make  no mind t’  me. You bloody  well better drop me  at County so  I can get  me hand
mended.”

Sound again piped up, as  if the matter were finally settled. “Well, then, the  three of us can go
get a room at the T-bird;  a friend of mine works the night shift. And the  rest of you can go spend
the night under that noisy bridge.”

Nurse dismissed the idea outright. “No!” she spat, wagging her head.

“We best  stay together.  It’ll take  ever’ one  a’ us  t’ keep  an eye  on the  other. No
sayin’ what kind a’ friends Mr. Vinnie’s got.”

Greg nodded reluctantly. “I agree with that.”

“Looks t’  me like it’s up  to you,” Nurse drawled,  getting up in the  Englishman’s face.
“Yes or no?” Ritter seemed lost in thought. “Ritter, yes or no?” she repeated.

“Yes–the hotel. But first drop me at County.  I’ll find you after they finish wit’ me broken
hand.”

Eddie’s truck  rumbled from behind  Ford’s locker, wheezing and  rattling up the  road. Cap’n,
Ritter, Sound and Smitty sat low in the back, while Nurse again perched herself between Mitch at the
wheel and Greg in the passenger seat.

“Can’t be wanderin’ the streets like we been doin’, ya’ know,” Nurse said.

Greg eyed his street-wise mentor. “How do you mean?”

“Mean like some kind  a’ crazy family. Soon as ‘at guard gets  loose, he’s gonna squeal like
an old stuck sow. Won’t be much time ‘fore Mr. Vinnie knows all about who we is.”

“You’re right. I’ve been thinking the same thing. And I might have a plan.”

“You got somethin’ you’s holdin’ back, now’d be a good time t’

spill yer guts.”

“Not yet. I learned  a long time ago not to  make a proposal unless I had  the resources to follow
through. I’m still not sure it’d even work.”

“Have it your way.”

The truck cab  fell silent, except for the  sound of the old  rag tires clawing at the  road and the
grinding of metal between each gear. Mitch stayed  off the main roads, instead opting for the sleepy
neighborhood streets.  County Hospital  was halfway across  town and  well out of  the route  to the
T-bird Hotel.

Four blocks from the hospital, Ritter knocked on the back window and

THE IDENTITY CHECK

239

hollered, “Set me down on the corner, mate. I’ll find the rest of me way on foot.”

Mitch pulled over to the curb near a corner streetlight. Ritter hopped down and cast a final, silent
glance at Cap’n.

“I didn’t mean t’  hurt your hand, you ornery old redcoat,” Cap’n  said, a tinge of warmth
in his voice.

Ritter shrugged. “You’re alright, pet. Weren’t your fault. I should’a never swung on you. It
just gets me so bloody  excited to be ‘round a good fire. ‘Sides  I ain’t been me-self lately.
Pert near  wet me own knickers  every time.” Ritter slapped  the fender and stepped  away from the
vehicle. “Be seein’ you,” he called out.

Mitch pressed the starter to the floor and clattered  away down the street. As Ritter set off in the
direction of the hospital, he looked back over  his shoulder. “Yeah, be seein’ you real soon,”
he muttered under his breath. Waving, Sound called out  over the roar of the truck, “We’ll be at
the Tbird–sleeping on real beds with clean sheets, a tub to soak in . . .” His voice faded away.
Ritter looked on. Already he was feeling bloody guilty for what he was about to do.

240 KEN MERRELL

TWENTY-NINE

IN A QUIET NEIGHBORHOOD across town, Stephanie’s  tired eyes blinked back the bright sunlight that
flooded through  Maggie’s guest-room window.  Rolling from  the bed, she  pulled on her  robe. The
smell of fresh bran muffins wafted under the bedroom door.

“Stephanie–good morning,” Maggie beamed. “Did you sleep well?”

The younger woman lifted her inflamed eyelids and forced a smile.

“There’s nothing like a good  cry to make me sleep like a baby. What I  need now is a swift kick
or a stiff cup of coffee to get me moving.”

“I’m sorry, I don’t drink . . .”

“No, no, I didn’t mean that. I quit drinking coffee too when I found out I was pregnant.”

“Well, then,” Maggie chuckled, “how about the swift kick, some juice and a warm muffin?”

“That’d be  wonderful,” Stephanie laughed, hefting  herself onto a bar  stool. “–minus the
swift kick, of course.”

Maggie scooted a  small plate of bran muffins across  the counter and poured a tall  glass of orange
juice.

Stephanie  peeled the  paper  from the  side of  one  of the  golden-brown  cakes and  took a  bite.
“They’re heavenly,” she purred.

“It’s an  old family recipe, one  my great grandmother wrote  in her journal while  she traveled
across the Wyoming  plains. She was in a  handcart company in the 1800s. Granny  Parry didn’t have
the ingredients to make them herself, but wanted her daughter–my grandmother–to know how to bake
them when she  reached the Salt Lake  Valley. My great grandmother  died two days later,  just a few
hours before a relief party  arrived to bring them to Utah. They had to bury  her in the snow, since
the ground was too frozen to dig a grave.”

Stephanie finished chewing and lowered her eyes, her hand still up to her lips.

Maggie let out an embarrassed sigh. “How silly of me to ramble on

THE IDENTITY CHECK

241

like that,” she scoffed as  she wiped the bar with a dish towel. “I heard  it so many times as a
child I didn’t think I’d ever repeat it.”

“No,  don’t  apologize. That’s  the  most  tender  story I  ever  heard.  You must  miss  your
grandmother terribly.”

“I do–but enough about that. You need to make a call to St. Louis and let that man of yours know
you love him.”

“I will as soon as we finish. Now tell me more about your grandmother.”

Maggie left the room and returned carrying an  antique photo in each hand. Her fingertips traced the
rims of  the old portraits, she  recounted the hard lives  her progenitors had faced  by choosing to
leave their home  in Denmark, sailing to New York,  joining up with a company of  other pioneers and
making their  way across the  plains. Only months  after arriving in Utah,  they were sent  south to
settle Las Vegas. Stephanie’s eyes lit up. “Las Vegas? Your people helped found Las Vegas?”

“My family was one of the first to come, sent here by Brigham Young himself.”

“I’ve never heard that before.”

“Most people  haven’t. . . .”  Maggie looked up at  the little teapotshaped clock  on the wall
above the sink and gave a start. “Oh, my!

Look  at the  time. We’re  going  to be  late for  work–and  there’s nothing  like getting  on
Kirsten’s bad side first  thing Monday morning.” Both women rolled their  eyes, then scurried to
their rooms to get dressed. The Federal Building’s regular Monday morning hustle and bustle seemed
no different than usual, except for the “bum”  asleep in the bushes outside the west door. Agent
Shane Barnes couldn’t help  but overhear the secretaries who sat  outside his doorway. Speculating
on the tramp’s fate, they’d  organized an informal, loser-buys-lunch-for-the-winner office pool:
would the guy be arrested or simply chased away? Chased away was the odds-on favorite.

From the doorway to his office he asked, “What in the world are you two talking about?”

“Didn’t you see the transient in the bushes by the west entrance?”

one of them asked.

“Nope,” replied Barnes, “I don’t use that door.”

The secretary stuck her nose in the air and gave a haughty sniff. It 242 KEN MERRELL

was her good-natured way of poking fun at the ‘uppity, hoity-toity big shots’

who were  assigned parking on  the east side.  Barnes chuckled, then  gave instructions to  send the
janitor out  to chase away their  vagrant friend. Returning to  his desk, he shuffled  through a few
papers before retrieving voice mail from his phone.

First new message, the computer said. Sunday, 3:55 pm. “Barnes, it’s Mike,” the message began.
“I tried your  mobile–it didn’t seem to be  working. I’ve got an appointment  with Mitch and
Vinnie. It looks like we might have our foot  in the door. I’ll call again when I’m finished.”
The machine beeped. Barnes,  clearly annoyed, clicked the receiver down.  “Hot shot cowboy can’t
follow protocol,”  he huffed under his  breath. He dialed  the phone. “Agent Hale,”  he added,
“I’ll be happy when you go home and stop chasing the big bust.” The line rang and rang. No one
picked up. Commotion from out  in the lobby prompted Agent Barnes to hang  up the phone. The janitor
stood in  the office entrance and  spoke softly over the  screaming, coming from down  the corridor.
“This fellow says  he knows of one  of your agents. When  security wouldn’t let him  in, he just
flew off the handle, yelling and screaming ‘bloody’ this and

‘bloody’ that. I can’t even  tell what he’s saying any more. He’s got  a cast on his hand;
busted one of the guards real good with it.”

Barnes stepped to the door and peered down the hallway toward the west entrance. Two security guards
were dragging  the foul-mouthed vagrant  back out towards the  exit. “Huh, thanks,  Jed,” Barnes
said,  glancing at  the  man’s  security identification  pinned  to his  shirt  and  giving him  a
condescending pat on the back. “I’m sure they have it under control.”

“Mike Hale!” The name echoed  down the hall like a voice from the dead.  “Agent Mike Hale! . .
.” the  bum kept screaming. Barnes’s  stomach twitched and his  muscles drew taut as  his casual
attitude crumpled like  a pallet of sticks.  No one but those  on the force knew  Mike’s real last
name. “Hold it!” he yelled, jogging down the hallway. “I need to talk to that man.”

When the  guards ceased their  dragging, Ritter shook  loose and stood  upright. “I told  you, you
ignoramuses!” he chastised the guards.

“You’re both bloody  thicker than a brick!” He  reached down and tucked his shirt  back in his
trousers. One of the guards  also felt the need to tidy himself up, tilting  his head back to stanch
the flow of blood that

THE IDENTITY CHECK

243

trickled from his nose.

“You go get cleaned up,” Barnes nodded to the injured security guard.

“And you,” he turned to the other, “bring him to interview one.”

Seated at a  single desk, Ritter, still smoldering,  waited in the small interview  room. His elbows
balanced on  the desktop, chin  in hands, while  Barnes instructed the  office to locate  Mike. Then
Barnes turned on the ‘record’

switch, opened the door to interview one, dropped a  notepad on the desk and took a seat across from
his vagrant-tipster.

“For the record, please state your full name, date of birth and address,” Barnes started. Ritter
looked up at the camera, then at the notepad.  “You think I’ll just come waltzing in here wit’
me guts  hanging out for  you to  snatch up? You  want the information  I got,  you got t’  do the
listening.”

Barnes vaulted  to his  feet. “Why  don’t I  just waltz you  down to  lock-up for  assaulting my
Federal security officer?”

“Fine wit’ me. Three hots and a cot, air-conditioned room, probably a might better ‘an me flat
at the shelter.” Ritter folded his arm across his broken hand and leaned back in his chair.

Agent Barnes stomped out and closed the door. After checking with the office to see if they’d been
able to reach Mike, he returned. Ritter was still  sitting with his legs crossed under the table and
one hand propped behind his head, perfectly content.

Barnes tried again. “How do you know Agent Hale?”

“Don’t.”

“What do you mean ‘don’t’?”

“Don’t know him.”

“Then I’m wasting my time. . . .”

“Whatever you say, bloke. It’ll cost you for me time.”

Barnes stood again and walked out of the room. “Stay with him,”

he instructed security. “Let him wallow in his own smell awhile.”

The entire  office was in a  tizzy, a madhouse of  scrambling agents, all searching  for Agent Hale.
“Find him,”  Barnes urged,  real worry  seeping into his  voice. “Check  the garage;  pull the
tapes; track his phone. I won’t allow this arrogant little runt to order me around like he’s the
King of England.”

Vinnie’s penthouse office  had become its own  sort of madhouse. The fire  department had informed
him that the apparent cause of the 244 KEN MERRELL

blaze was  a broken switch in  the Escort’s brake lights.  They’d been found charred  and mostly
consumed by  the fire. As  best they could  determine, the wiring had  ignited the carpeting  in the
trunk and boiled the gas tank until it exploded,  taking the body shop down with it. They were still
trying to locate the  vehicle’s owner. Clint, meanwhile, had done his best  to locate Stephanie. A
search of the rented house had turned up nothing  more than a dirty kitchen, the Camaro still in the
garage, and toothbrushes missing  from the medicine cabinet. Al Kostecki had  been promised a $5,000
bonus if  he would watch  and notify Clint  when the “girl”  returned. Inside the  Three Queens,
electricians and  elevator repairmen  had spent  most of  the night  restoring power  to one  of the
disabled  cars. The  other two  would be  down  several days,  while waiting  for parts  to fix  the
antiquated lift.

Clint, his  arms folded  across his  chest, sat  askance on the  arm of  the leather  chair opposite
Vinnie’s desk.  Frank stood  by the door  leading to  the stairs. “Wait  in the  hall, Frank,”
Vinnie ordered. Frank blindly obeyed.

“Look, Vinnie, you always knew I wasn’t in it for the long haul,”

said Clint after the door had closed. “I spoke with  my old lady last night. She thinks me and the
old man can work out  our problems. Besides, it’s time to shut down the  operation and get on with
the new casino. You’ve got plenty to retire on, if you invest it right.”

“I ain’t no  stockbroker,” Vinnie growled, “and your problems  ain’t even started, Clinton
Stewart Thurston the Third. If Eddie turns over  his information, you’ll be run in for credit card
fraud, racketeering, forgery, money-laundering, and whatever else the Feds can pin on you. You think
the old man’ll be willing to go to bat  for his delinquent son with them kind of charges hangin’
over your head?”

Clint squirmed in  his seat and flicked his  gelled hair from his forehead. Vinnie  stood, walked to
the bar, poured a drink. Then he gave a little laugh and said, “Remember that little tramp claimed
she was carryin’  your kid?” He sauntered  back to Clint and set  the drink on the  table at his
knees.

Clint shot a look at the drink, then looked up, confused. “Yeah . . . what about her?”

Vinnie smirked. “You didn’t really think she’d just pack up and go back to Iowa, did you?”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

245

Clint reached over  and picked up the  drink. In a single motion,  he jerked it above  his mouth and
gulped it down. “You son of a . . .”

“Not to worry,” Vinnie interrupted with a  wicked smile. “They ain’t even identified who she
is. Probably never  will. And even if  they did, what are  the chances they’d ever  match your DNA
with those tiny bones of your kid?”

Clint banged his empty glass  on the table and shot to his feet. Vinnie met  him eye to eye, staring
him down, his right hand poised inside his jacket.

Doubling up his fist,  Clint waded forward at his fellow criminal.“You’re  some piece a’ work,
and I’m . . .”

Pistol in hand, Vinnie jabbed it into Clint’s  muscular chest. “Not today, you ain’t! You want
a piece of me, get in line. Afraid of dying  ain’t got no part a’ my life. Either do somethin’
about it, or take care a’

your part a’ our contract and get the operation back up.”

Clint, mid-stride, came to a halt. His jaw flexed sporadically. A few tense seconds passed before he
backed down  and retreated  to the safety  of the  one working elevator.  Vinnie continued  with his
demands. “I  want that kid’s woman  by nightfall. I  don’t care if  you got to drag  her outta
where she works, you find her. Once you do, I’ll send Frankie to pick her up.”

Mr. Ford,  a bent, barrel-chested  old gentleman with  thick woolly eyebrows,  stood on the  dock in
front of his  storage building, listening to Earl  Watts, the Three Queens guard, tell  his story to
the Vegas police.  “I’m telling you, they  weren’t criminals. I’ve been  thinking about them
all night  and I got no  intention of filing  charges.” Old-man Ford  had heard it all  before the
police arrived.  He sympathized with  Earl, even mentioning to  the guard the  Health Department’s
flagrant, futile attempt to stop his own “dumpster donations.”

The police weren’t about to let Earl pass the incident off so casually. “I’m sorry, Mr. Watts,
kidnapping is a  Federal crime. It’s out of our  hands–and yours. The Fed boys are  on their way
down here.  If we  find who  locked you in  that freezer,  the best we  can do  is charge  them with
breaking and entering. The Feds can do much more than that . . .”

The officer turned to Mr. Ford. “. . . that is, if Mr. Ford is willing to cooperate.”

Ford shook his head and buried his hands deep in the pockets of his 246 KEN MERRELL

wool trousers. Pivoting back  into his office, he mumbled a few cynical  words about “beating down
the little guy  while the big guy just gets  bigger.” He draped a worn parka  over his dingy white
shirt and glared out the window. A beige sedan with Federal plates bounced across the gravel parking
lot, coming  to rest between the  two Vegas squad cars.  The resulting wave of  dust trailed behind,
ultimately coming  to settle  on the  cars, the  nearby weeds, and  the corrugated  roof of  the old
storage building. A  fine layer also managed to  coat the two dark-suited agents.  Both men buttoned
their jackets  in perfect unison,  surveying their surroundings. As  they traipsed up  the crumbling
steps leading to the dock, two of the police  officers came out to greet them. After several minutes
of discussion filled with the requisite points,  nods, and glances, the agents and officers followed
the dock  to where  Earl Watts stood.  As per protocol,  both agents  removed the badges  from their
jackets and  held them  in front  of the  guard’s face. “I’m  Agent Barnes  and this  is Agent
Horne.”

Earl looked  over the  badges and  associated identification,  then compared  the pictures  with the
agents’ faces. “Okay.”

The agents paused, their ID’s still held vertically, as if counting off a specified cadence before
proceeding. Finally they folded  their wallets and returned them to  their suitcoats. “Earl Watts,
correct?” Barnes  asked. Earl  nodded. “For the  record, I  need your date  of birth  and social
security number.”

Agent Horne, a tall, angular, sandy-haired man in his  late 20s, took out a scratch pad and began to
scribble notes as Earl began repeating the information he’d already shared with the police.

“You work for Three Queens?”

“Just two weeks.”

“You know Vincent Domenico?”

“Met him once.”

“What do you know about him?”

“Not much. Pay’s fair, lets management run things, likes fast cars.”

Barnes forged on. “Tell us again about how you were brought here.”

Earl exhaled and began to  recount the event in greater detail. He’d pulled his  gun on a group of
vagrants .  . . out of  nowhere, some big  black guy grabbed him  and squeezed him around  the chest
until he passed out. . .  . They brought him to a meat locker and tied  him up. That was pretty much
it.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

247

Barnes considered what he’d heard. “Why does a security guard carry a gun inside a casino?”

“They pay three bucks more an hour if you get a permit.”

“So why’d you pull your gun on a bunch of homeless people?”

“We had some trouble last night. Somebody set off the fire alarm and disabled the elevators.”

“Yeah, we heard.” Barnes,  already aware of Mitch’s greasy fingerprints  all over the elevator
doors, was anxious to move on to the real problem. “You think the guy was homeless?”

“No way. Could have been getting help, but he was  too good. He knew just how to go about shutting
the whole place down.”

“Who do you think he is?”

“Don’t know. Only  saw a shot of him on  the security film. Night watch said  Mr. Domenico would
pay forty-grand to the one that caught him. I thought it was him driving the old truck.”

“What do you mean you thought it was him?”

Earl’s bald head  gave a shake. He seemed to  be revisiting in his mind the  scenes from the night
before. “No,  I don’t think so,”  he muttered, more to  himself than to the  agents. “I must
have been mistaken. Head of security said the  guy that shut us down was mean–armed and dangerous.
This guy spoke softly. He cared about people, I could  tell. Like I told the cops, he even came back
into the locker to put a coat on me. Even left my gun.”

“What did he look like?”

The guard  again shook  his head.  “You ever  tried to make  an ID  from an  elevator surveillance
camera?”

“How about the guy in the truck?”

“Clean cut, dirty-blond  hair, blue eyes . .  . looked like an athlete. He  seemed pretty nervous.
The old  lady said  he was Eddie’s  grandson–you know,  the owner of  Eddie’s Gym?  I didn’t
believe a word of it, though.”

At the mention of Eddie’s name Horne’s head jerked  up from his notes. He stared over at Barnes,
then returned to  his note taking. “Did you  know the body shop burned down  last night?” Barnes
asked.

“Cops said it did.”

“What time did you walk the garage?”

“Two.”

“You’re sure?”

248 KEN MERRELL

“Look, now I  could lose my job for  saying this, but I  know it was two, because  every night the
gate guard and I watch  this girly show from one to two. He keeps this  little 13-inch set under the
desk. Figured out how to patch into the hotel’s cable line. Keeps us awake.”

Barnes grunted; Horne, still scrawling out Earl’s  testimony, offered a faint smile. “I’m sure
it does,” Barnes sniffed. “You know what time the fire was reported at the body shop?”

Earl hunched his shoulders. “Some time after two, I guess.”

“It wasn’t on fire while you were there?”

“‘Course not.”

“Could the same bunch that accosted you have started the blaze?”

“I guess so. . . .”

Barnes ended the interview, then added, “We need you to come down to the office and see if you can
identify someone, and maybe help us work up a few composite drawings of your assailants.”

“Listen, guys. I’m already late  for my real job, I spent a long night in  a cooler, my ribs are
bruised, I  need a shower and  a cup of  coffee, and, frankly, if  Mr. Domenico was after  me, I’d
probably have done the same thing. I’m no worse  for wear and I shouldn’t have pulled the gun on
them in the first place. It was the forty-grand. Dreams  of easy street got inside my head and I got
a little carried away. That’s all. These people don’t need any more trouble from me.”

“There’s more at  stake than charges against a  pack of homeless people, Mr  Watts. I’m afraid
we’ll have to insist.”

The corners of Earl’s top lip drooped into a feeble scowl. He glanced over at Mr. Ford, who gave a
gentle nod before renewing  his fixed stare out the office window. Turning,  the agents escorted the
Three Queens’ guard down the steps and to the car.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

249

THRITY

THE HOTEL WAS BUILT  in the ‘60s. Its pool was  dry, filled to the brim with  gravel and dirt; its
tubs  and toilets  were stained  from years  of hard-water  mineral build-up;  mold and  mildew grew
unimpeded between fixtures and walls; and the furniture stood in gross need of replacement.

Nurse rolled over  in her bed, grunting  and moaning in her  sleep. Greg sat under  the dim, 40-watt
lamp bulb, sketching out the  final details to his plan. It would be risky, no  doubt, but as far as
he could figure they didn’t have many options.

Driving the  old truck again was  out of the question.  The team had parked  it on a side  street in
someone’s driveway five blocks  away. Mitch, together with Sound, had made the  walk to the T-bird
and rented three rooms. They paid with cash,  always welcome. At the front desk Sound had introduced
Mitch as a friend.  The rest of the Alley Team wandered  in one at a time, so as  not to attract any
undue attention, and found their rooms per  Greg’s instructions. Mitch and Sound shared room #213,
while Cap’n  and Smitty stayed  in #117 near  the back and  Nurse and Greg  were in #103,  the one
closest to  the front.  Amid Nurse’s  soft snores,  Greg pulled  the local  yellow pages  from the
battered desk drawer  and laid it open on the  table. Physicians. . . . He  flipped back through the
pages, stopping  at the Eye doctors  section. His finger skimmed  down to one of  the first listings
–Cataract &  Lasik Centerof Las Vegas.  Dr. James Clark, Highly  Experienced, Caring Surgeon–and
dialed up the number. A receptionist answered. “Good morning, Doctor Clark’s office.”

“Good morning,” said Greg. “My mother and I are  in town from back east. I’ve been trying to
have her cataracts removed for years and I think I finally convinced her it’s time. Do you suppose
that would  be something  you could  work in,  say in the  next day  or so,  before she  changes her
mind?”

250 KEN MERRELL

“Hmm, just  a moment.” The line  was patched into  a looped ad,  which droned on about  the many
benefits of laser surgery. The line clicked again. “This is Doctor Clark. How can I help you?”

Greg momentarily sputtered, then said, “I hadn’t expected to talk to the doctor.”

“I happened to be up front. Tell me about your mother.”

“She’s 70 years old and  ornery as a wild sow. She lives on a tobacco  farm in Alabama and never
gets out. I’ve been trying to get her eyes fixed  for years. I think I may have convinced her, but
it’s do or die. She could change her mind at any time.”

“How long will you be in town?”

“Two days.”

The doctor paused. “Well, it’s  highly unusual for us to do both eyes in  such a short period of
time.” His voice trailed off as he consulted the receptionist. Greg heard the words ‘squeeze her
in . . .’ Then he came back on the line.  “Why don’t you bring her in today and let’s take a
look. If it  appears she’s in good health and  her eyes aren’t too bad, we’ll  see what we can
do.”

Greg set an appointment for three and asked for directions before he hung up the phone.

A gruff, sleepy voice came from under the covers. “I ain’t goin’ t’

no doctor,” Nurse said sternly. “This ornery ol’ sow ain’t lettin’ nobody poke no knife in
her eyes.”

“You sleep with one ear open?”

“Hafta. If’n I don’t,  some sweet-talkin’ boy like you comes long  an’ ‘fore ya’ knows
it I’m in more trouble ‘an a wasp in a beehive.”

Greg walked over  and sat on the  corner of the bed. “Look,  I know you’re a  smart woman,” he
began. “You’ve more than proven it to me, but  just like changing my name to ‘Sunny’ to keep
me out of trouble, it’s time to bring Rebecca Lambert back to town and send Nurse away. We can’t
do that until  you look like Mrs. Lambert. My  plan hinges on you being Rebecca  Lambert, not Nurse.
You need a bath,  a hairdo, new clothes, a room at  Three Queens. . . . And I’ve  got to teach you
how to keep a poker face.”

“Poker face, my eye.”

“You should have seen the whole bunch of you last night, waiting for an answer from Lightning. You
all wore  your emotions in  your posture. I  could tell exactly what  you were thinking  without you
saying a word.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

251

“Could not.”

“Okay, watch.” Greg  folded his arms, stuck  his chin in the  air and leaned back  in his chair.
“Who am I and what am I telling you?”

“Don’t know . . .”

“Yes, you do. I’m acting just like Ritter when  he’s mad.” Greg began to bob his head up and
down, then back  and forth, as if  he were looking for  answers from someone else.  “Who does this
remind you of?”

“Okay, maybe ya’ look like Smitty when he’s wonderin’ how ever’one else is plannin’ t’
vote.”

“Good.” Greg  assumed his most macho  expression, pretended to pull  on his coat collar,  took a
deep breath, then let out a sigh. “And?”

“‘At’s Cap’n, ‘course.”

Greg then  began to smack his  lips together and  grind his gums, all  the while waving his  hand at
himself like a gibbering mouth. “And?”

“Point made. . . . An’ I don’t talk all that much,” Nurse insisted, “an’

‘at ain’t hows I look ‘tall.”

“You’re right. I have all my teeth.”

“Now you’s makin’ fun a’ me.”

“No, I’m not making fun. I’m driving a point home. Not only do we need to get your eyes fixed,
we need to get you a new set of teeth.”

“I ain’t had teeth in 40 years. Wouldn’t know what t’ do with ‘em.”

“Have you  ever seen My Fair  Lady?” Greg continued. Nurse  shook her head. “Can’t  say as I
have.”

“Well we’re going to rent it and a few other old movies, and you’re going to learn how to talk
like a southern belle.”

A look of indignation crossed the old woman’s face. “An’ what’s th’

matter with my talkin’?”

“You don’t  speak proper  English. You  talk like  an uneducated  farm girl  from the  swamps of
Alabama.”

“‘At’s ‘cause I is.”

“That is because I am,” Greg tried to correct.

“Jus’ like I said.”

Greg scratched  at his beard and  peered up at the  water-stained ceiling tiles. “Why  don’t you
take a shower. I’m going to send Sound to that  store we passed last night and get a few things we
need. What size dress and undergarments do you wear?”

“Whatever I can fit in. My boxer shorts say ‘medium’ on th’ label, do know ‘at much.”

252 KEN MERRELL

Greg chuckled softly. “You won’t be wearing boxer shorts for a while, I can promise you that.”

Nurse grunted again  as she crawled from bed  and traipsed into the bathroom. Greg  dialed room #213
and woke Mitch from a restless sleep. “Lightning, it’s Sunny.”

“Who’s this?” Mitch replied.

“Greg Hart.”

“Oh. . . . I thought I was having a bad dream.”

“Sorry, I wish it  were only that. Look, I need  some cash and you need to  locate a newspaper and
find us a different place to stay.”

“Stef,” Mitch whispered.

“What?”

“My wife, Stephanie. I dreamt Vinnie was after my wife.”

“Where is she?”

“Staying with a friend. . . . What time is it?”

“Almost noon.”

Mitch sat up, wide awake, and let out a harsh whimper. “She’s probably at work!” he exclaimed.
“I’ve got to get her some place safe. Vinnie’s  been screwing with my credit, so I’m sure he
knows where she works.”

Greg’s heart began to race. “Call her; tell her to stay inside, close to lots of people. We’ll
have to figure out how to get her out without Vinnie knowing where she’s gone.”

Mitch flung  himself from  bed. Sound, sprawled  out on the  bed nearest  the wall, rolled  over and
yawned, stretched and blinked his tired eyes.

“That was the  best night’s sleep I’ve had in  a year,” he crooned. To say  the least, Mitch
wasn’t paying attention to anything Sound said or did. Jerking the phone back off its receiver, he
punched up the number to First Capitol Mortgage, then entered the extension.

“Hi, this is Stephanie Wilson. Today is Monday, April  third. I’ll be at my desk all day. Please
leave a message and I’ll call you back as soon as possible.”

Mitch waited  for the beep. “Stef,  it’s Mitch. Listen, I’m  sorry I left yesterday  on such a
sour note. A bunch of  things are jamming me up right now. I can’t  explain over the phone. Please
don’t leave work. Please. I’ll call back in a few minutes.” He hung up the phone. Sound sat up
in bed, a baffled look on his face. “What’s going on?”

“My wife. . . . If Vinnie wants me bad enough, she isn’t safe.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

253

“I should say not. What if he already has her?”

Mitch  recoiled at  the  thought. “No,  she made  it  to work.  She  changed her  voice mail  this
morning.”

“Thank goodness.” Sound breathed out a sigh of relief. “What are we going to do?”

“I’ll try again in a minute.”

Inside the bureaucratic bowels at First Capitol,  Stephanie took little note of the flashing message
light on her phone. Removing  her headset, she struggled to her feet and  peeked through the door of
Maggie’s cubicle. “I’m starving,” she moaned, kneading  the small of her back with her hand.
“And my back’s killing me.”

Maggie lay her own headset on her desk. “I’ve been there before,”

she said sympathetically. “By six  months my hips were so sore it felt like  my legs were going to
fall off.”

“Not fun.”

“It doesn’t happen to everyone.”

“Thank goodness.”

The  women gathered  up  their belongings  and  started down  the corridor  toward  the time  clock.
“Don’t let me forget  to pick up my drycleaning,” Maggie said.  Kirsten’s office was located
at the end of  the hall. As they neared, she  gave them both a cold stare, her  phone pressed to her
ear in the middle of a call. Finally as they  neared her desk, she reached over and pressed the mute
button. Leaning into the hallway, she called out, “Late in the morning and early to lunch?”

Maggie approached the  team leader and gave  her a gentle pat on  the arm. “You have  a nice lunch
too,  dear,” she  said sweetly.  The timely  and bold–and  utterly hilarious–act  left Kirsten
seething with rage.  Stephanie put a hand to her  mouth to stifle an outburst of  laughter, though a
girlish snicker did manage to escape. “I can’t believe you did that,” she finally whispered as
they swiped  the clock.  Stephanie peeked back  to see  the reaction on  Kirsten’s face.  “Oh my
gosh,” she shrieked, flabbergasted, “she’s flipping us off!”

Maggie  exited the  office, her  expression a  conflicted  state of  giddy remorse.  “Oh, dear,  I
shouldn’t have done that,”  she moaned. “I promised myself I’d never  say anything mean back
to her.”

“What can she do, fire us? We don’t even have a set lunch hour.”

254 KEN MERRELL

“You know, Stephanie,  that woman has been determined  to see me fired ever since  I started here.
She’s told me several times that an ‘old woman’

has no business working. The last thing I need to do is drag you into my quarrel.”

The elevator door  opened and both women stepped  into the crowded car. Stephanie  studied the faces
around her to make sure no one was  listening. “Maggie, you’re my best friend,” she whispered.
“If  she’s going  to fire  you for  being  old–‘more mature,’  I mean–and  me for  being
pregnant, let’s go see management.”

Maggie raised a finger  to her lips and waited for  the elevator to come to rest  on the main floor.
Both women walked  down the congested hallway and  out the parking exit before  Maggie resumed their
conversation. “In fact,” she confessed, “I’ve started keeping a record of her discriminating
remarks. If you do the same, we can defend ourselves if she does something drastic. In the meantime,
I’m going to apologize for what I said and try to keep the peace.”

“How do you do that?” Stephanie asked.

“What?”

“I don’t know–apologize so easily, calm things down.”

“When you grow up the  oldest of thirteen children and raise a houseful of  your own, you learn to
get along.” Maggie paused to scan the parking lot. “I forgot where I parked.”

“Way  back,” Stephanie  pointed, then  added, “Maybe  that’s my  problem. I’m  one of  two
children–spoiled rotten.”

Maggie dismissed the comment with a chuckle. “You’re not spoiled rotten. You and Mitch live on a
shoestring, like most newlyweds.”

“No, it’s not the money part; that’s easy compared to building a relationship. Mitch is always
so good to me. The other night I tried to be  the first to apologize, and he still beat me to it.”
Stephanie turned to stare at an old car down the way, parked nose out. “I’ve been hanging around
my mechanic-husband too long.” Maggie turned to see  what it was Stephanie was looking at. “That
car’s a 1965 Cadillac convertible. Mitch would be drooling over it right now.”

Maggie abruptly  looked away. “And its  owner is wondering  what we’re staring at.”  They both
headed off in the direction of Maggie’s mid-size.

Maggie had been  right. The monstrous black man behind  the wheel of the ‘65 Caddy  peered down at
the photo in his hand and back at

THE IDENTITY CHECK

255

Stephanie. Then he  picked up his phone to place  a call. “I’ve got her,” his  deep bass voice
vibrated through the car. “She’s with another woman–and they already made me.”

“Made you?” responded Clint.

“She was looking at my car or something.”

“Stay back. Find out where they’re going and keep in touch.”

The  big  man  bristled.  “Listen,  man,  guardin’ your  operation  downstairs  was  one  thing.
Kidnappin’–that’s goin’ too far.”

“Who said  anything about  kidnapping. Just let  me know where  they go.  I’ll take care  of the
rest.”

“Whatever you say.” Ty hung up the phone.

Maggie unlocked  her car  and opened her  door to  let out  the heat before  both women  climbed in.
“Maggie, would you  mind if we went to my  house for lunch?” Stephanie asked. “I  left food on
the stove yesterday,  and I’d like to  pick up our other car  so you don’t need  to chauffeur me
around.”

Despite her  insistence that it was  no trouble at all  to ‘chauffeur’ her young  friend around,
Maggie agreed.  Then the conversation shifted  back to the  thorny subject of marital  relations. Ty
followed Maggie’s gold Saturn at a comfortable distance. Just five blocks down the road he was cut
off by a city bus that pulled across three lanes of heavy traffic in an attempt to stop at the curb.
His view of  Maggie’s car was suddenly  blocked. At almost the same  moment, Stephanie interrupted
Maggie mid-sentence and pointed to the Academy  Dry-Cleaning shop immediately to their right. “Oh,
thanks for  reminding me,” said  Maggie. She pulled  to the shoulder,  turned, and headed  for the
drive-through window at the  back of the cleaners. A hundred feet back,  Ty anxiously waited for the
bus to move.  When it had finally  dropped off its passengers,  a full minute had  elapsed. A minute
after that, he was on the phone. “I lost ‘em, man.”

Clint’s temper flared up. “How could ya’ lose ‘em!” he raged. “They driving a Porsche or
somethin’?”

“No, this . . .”

“Forget it! Just forget it and go back to wait where she works.”

A quiet room, air-conditioning, a padded carpet to lie  on . . . the Federal building wasn’t a bad
place to catch a  nap. The stench in the room  was the only drawback. For that  reason Ritter lay as
far away from 256 KEN MERRELL

the trash can as possible.

Barnes and Horne had  spent most of the morning rounding up suitable  candidates to act as stand-ins
for a line-up, each resembling a homeless bum. It also took several hours for the agents to retrieve
and view the video surveillance tapes from the garage.

Earl, the  security guard,  had cooperated  with a  composite artist  skilled at  high-tech computer
sketches, but after a few hours of poring  over hundreds of different eyes, noses, chins, mouths and
hairlines, his brain was  fried. After a reasonably exhaustive effort, he  finally conceded that the
renditions were a close match. Mounting pressure  to determine the whereabouts of Agent Hale brought
Barnes storming back into interview one. Finding  Ritter sound asleep, the agent whooped, “On your
feet!” followed by a poke to the ribs with the toe of his shoe. “Let’s go!”

Ritter cracked an eyelid and gazed up with a smile. “What . . . we goin’ out for a brew?”

Barnes’s face scrunched up and his nostrils  flattened. “What’s that foul smell?” He coughed
and pinched his nose shut, holding his breath.

“Oh, sorry, mate,” Ritter answered. “It’s a  right cheeky smell, ain’t it? Your man, here,
told me t’ get back in  me closet when I told him me guts weren’t feelin’  so . . . so ‘spot
on,’ you might say, an’ I needed a trip to the loo. So, made me own loo outta your trash basket,
I did. Probably  shoulda’ right well tied up  th’ bag when I was finished,  shouldn’t I of?”
Barnes pushed Ritter  out the door and slammed it  shut. “Maybe you can ask him  t’ take it out,
mate, in case we be comin’

back?”

Barnes jerked  his head to alert  security what was  up, then led Ritter  down the hall to  a narrow
viewing  room. One  of its  walls acted  as a  one-way mirror.  After receiving  a handful  of hasty
instructions, Ritter found himself standing against a wall, face forward, holding a “#3”

card in front of his chest, one of six contestants, each appearing almost as shabby and impoverished
as himself. Barnes’s voice came from behind the glass. “Men, please turn to the right.”

The five other men  turned right. Ritter, however, purposely turned left,  then clumsily excused his
blunder. “Sorry lads. Wasn’t sure if he meant me right or his right.”

Barnes ignored the sorry act. He let go of the intercom button and turned

THE IDENTITY CHECK

257

to Earl. “Do you recognize any of these men?”

The guard surveyed the ragged group. “No. . . .”

“Were any of them there last night?”

“Sorry, I’ve never seen any of them.”

“Take your time.”

“No need. None of them are even close.”

Barnes pressed  the button again. “Let  everyone go but number  three. Take him to  interview room
two.” Then, turning to face Earl, he explained, “Mr.  Watts, we have some video you need to look
at.”

A minute later and a  few rooms down, Earl, Barnes and Horne were staring  at segments of video from
Mike’s garage. The audio had  been turned off. The first clip showed Mike  bent over a tool chest,
pulling tools out for Mitch to borrow.

“That’s the guy driving the truck last  night,” Earl insisted. Agent Horne perked up. “Which
one?”

“That one.” Earl pointed to Mitch.

Barnes crouched closer to the screen. “You’re sure?”

Earl nodded. “Your video’s better than those at Three Queens. They’re a fuzzy mess.”

With a few other lesser details out of the way, Earl was let go and Barnes and Horne paraded through
the door to  interview two. Ritter was stretched out  on the ground with one hand  propped under his
head and the other–the one in the cast–resting on his stomach.

“Trenton Ritter,  born April 18, 1953.  Selby, Yorkshire, England.  One of seven children  born to
Tommy and Milda Ritter,” Barnes read from his notepad.

Ritter sat up. “A spot on, mate. Been doin’ your studies, you have?”

Barnes  continued. “Came  to the  states  at seventeen,  two  years later  married Sharon  Carter.
Divorced two years  after that and never paid  a dime of child-support. And,”  he added ominously,
“violence was involved.”

“‘At’s a lie!” shouted Ritter. “Worked me backside  off them first few years, I did, an’
I never hit her. Not once!”

Barnes  got up  in his  informant’s face.  “Shut up  and listen.”  Ritter, his  sassy attitude
quickly fading, slithered over  and settled into a chair by the door  as Barnes finished reading off
his notes. “Married again, you became the deadbeat  dad to three more offspring. You were arrested
thirty-seven times for minor drug charges in the last ten years, three 258 KEN MERRELL

times for  suspected arson.” Barnes  slammed the notepad  down on the table  and sat nose  to nose
across the table from his target. “You’ve never dealt  with the FBI. You want to play games with
me you better be very smart. I’ll stick you on a skewer and roast you over your own fire.”

Ritter squirmed in his seat. “I ain’t been arrested in three years. Got me act together, I have.
Killed me bad habits when I stopped takin’ drugs . . .”

Barnes slapped the table hard. “I didn’t say  you could talk yet!” Another deadly stare and he
referred again to his notes.  “You were drunk last night and treated by  a paramedic team for some
lacerations. By pure coincidence, early this morning –in the same alley–a body shop burns to the
ground. Again by pure coincidence,  a call comes into the Vegas PD that  someone was murdered in the
garage the day before.” Barnes, bluffing all the way, paused for effect. “My bet is, if we march
you to the lab and take a sample from your filthy hands, well find the proof we need to hang you for
both a murder and a fire.”

Ritter stole a glance at his hands, then placed them in his lap. “I ain’t murdered nobody.”

The agent clenched his teeth and leaned his face across the table, only a half-inch from Ritter’s,
the words coming  out one by one. “I’ll  tell you again–I didn’t say you  could talk yet.”
Ritter clamped his  mouth shut and swallowed hard.  Barnes went on reading from the  stack of notes.
“You stop at County to get your hand fixed around 4:30 a.m. and leave the hospital this morning at
6:45. Our cameras  pick you up at 7:15, then  shortly after 8:00 this morning you  assault a Federal
officer. For a  guy with your record, that’s  a minimum ten-year sentence. I’m ready  to bet you
broke your hand setting fire to the garage–probably another twenty years. And as soon as we nail a
murder on you you’ll get life. So, Mr. Ritter, is that what you waltzed in here for?”

The tramp blinked, then lowered his head. “I think maybe I need a . . .”

“Maybe we better back off a bit, Agent  Barnes,” Horne interrupted before the man could spit out
the word ‘lawyer.’ He  also was sensing that the Brit had made  yet another attitude adjustment.
“Mr. Ritter might be able to make a few dollars and help us out at the same time.”

Ritter brightened.  “‘At’s what I  came down  here for in  the first place,  mate.” Snubbing
Barnes, he turned to talk to his partner.  “Information I got oughta’ be worth ‘bout 50-grand.
But pickin’ my brain’ll be worth it to ya’.”

Barnes laughed out loud and turned his back to the men. Horne sat down

THE IDENTITY CHECK

259

next to Ritter. “Let’s talk. What information might you have?”

“Wit’ all  the information  you got,  you bloody well  know your  Agent Hale’s  missin’ now,
don’t you, mate?”

“Fifty-grand’s a lot of money for the location of an agent,” answered Horne calmly.

“Not if he’s dead–an’ you want to recover his body an’ catch the murderer, it ain’t.”

Horne  shot a  sobering look  at  Barnes, who  had already  guessed  the worst.  The head  agent’s
shoulders slumped in frustration. “We’ll have to  talk to the Special Agent in Charge.” Barnes
rose from his seat and stalked from the room.

260 KEN MERRELL

THIRTY-ONE

MAGGIE DROVE DOWN the  cul-de-sac and up the driveway in front of  the run-down garage. “There’s
not much to eat inside,” Stephanie apologized as  the women stepped from the car. “And you might
have to help me open the garage door. It didn’t work last time.”

“I had that problem once,” remarked Maggie. “My daughter  had to show me how to pull a rope to
manually lift the door.”

Stephanie blushed slightly. “Oh, so that’s what the little rope is for. I thought it was to tell
you how far to pull the car in. I always stop when it’s even with my windshield.” She fumbled in
her handbag  for her  keys and  turned to  look next  door. Joan’s  car was  parked in  the drive.
“Thank goodness Al’s not  out or he’d be over here harassing us.  Believe me, you don’t want
to meet him.” She shuddered at the thought.

“He’s the grossest man I’ve ever met.”

Maggie swung open the  screen door as Stephanie reached for the lock.  A bright orange notice laying
between the door and the  screen caught her eye. Picking up the paper, she  read aloud the first few
words: “Three-Day Notice to Vacate.”

Safely inside, Stephanie slumped down on the couch  and read: “Youare hereby ordered to vacate the
premises and  surrender possession ofthe subject  premises to the Owner.  If you fail to  vacate the
subjectpremises within three days after this notice is  served upon you, youwill be deemed guilty of
an unlawful detention and legal action will betaken against you. . . .”

“Oh, dear,” she gasped.  “Mitch promised he’d take care of it before  he left town. Now what
am I going to do?”

“I’m so sorry,  dear,” Maggie said, putting  an arm around her young  friend. “Well, we’ll
just have to deal with it, won’t we?”

Stephanie felt  like the  ground was  quaking beneath  her. “How  can we?  Three days?  We can’t
possibly move out in three days.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

261

Maggie pondered the  matter. “Let’s take things one step  at a time. Why don’t you  see if you
can call  Mitch’s hotel while I  clean up the kitchen.  You’d be surprised how  being single has
toughened up this old woman.”

Maggie lowered her voice to a high alto, at best, and flexed her flabby arms.

Stephanie laughed–then began  to cry, daubing the  tears that appeared on  her cheeks. “That’s
exactly what Mitch does when I complain about Al.”

Both women lit  into their assigned tasks, Maggie  humming a tune in the  kitchen, Stephanie growing
more frustrated by the minute. The hotel Mitch had  planned to stay in said he never checked in. The
registration office at the National Vocational Competition claimed he hadn’t registered, either.

In the house next door, Al sat snoring in  his easy chair. A collection of empty beer cans cluttered
the floor to his right.  A handful of cigarette butts peppered the residual  brew on the carpet. The
noontime news blared  from the television as Andy  wandered up from the basement in  nothing but his
leopard-print bikini underwear. He opened the fridge. With  a cold blast of indignation and a string
of crude language,  the younger Kostecki marched to the  living room and gave the pile  a wild kick,
sending droplets of  beer, cigarette ashes and  empty containers scattering in his  wake. The flames
long since fed and fanned,  Al exploded awake in a violent verbal brawl  of his own. The vulgarities
soon led to a swinging  of fleshy arms and doubled fists, one that  connected squarely with the side
of Andy’s listless head.

The young Kostecki careened across the living room, colliding with the dividing wall to the kitchen.
As he  hit, the sheetrock crumpled  like a used tissue  under his bulk. Recovering  his senses, Andy
clambered up and shouted,  “What was that for?” Then, brushing sheetrock dust  from his arms and
thighs, the young troublemaker  tried to reason with his bully-of-adad. “You  drank my beer again.
You . . .”

Another string  of Russian cuss words  cut Andy off.  The boy knew better  than to wake Al  from his
morning nap–when suddenly the elder man started to laugh. “You broke the vall, you stupid vomans
man!”

Andy didn’t see what was so funny. “Yeah, so?”

“So you keep me ‘wake all night banging walls downstairs vit dat 262 KEN MERRELL

voman. Maybe I go down and bang walls too.”

“Andy glanced at the stairway leading to the basement. “She’s so hung over she wouldn’t know
the difference. And for a couple of beers she’ll . .

.”

“Shut up in there!” Joan screamed from the bedroom. “I’m trying to get some sleep!”

Fearing the wrath of the tough old broad, the  men lowered their voices. “I put beer back soon,”
Al vowed. “I find dat girl next door, I make ‘nough money to buy beer for three months.”

Andy appeared puzzled. “What about the girl next door?”

“Watch. She come back, I get paid big bucks.” Both men gazed out the window to the next house.

Andy flinched. “It looks like your lucky day, pops. Someone’s there.”

Al snatched up the phone. Outside, he could see Maggie’s gold Saturn.

“Look! It’s come unplugged,” Maggie said, pointing at the garage door opener. “Let’s get a
chair and plug it back in.”

With the cord back in the outlet and a touch  of the control clipped on the visor of the Camaro, the
double-wide door–its gears  knocking and squealing–groaned upward. Stephanie took  a deep breath
and let out a sigh. “Finally,” she muttered.

“Don’t you worry about the house, Stephanie,” Maggie consoled.

“It’s probably nothing. We can sort through it after  work. And I have a few dollars you can use
if you need to.”

“It’s not just the house; it’s Mitch. Where is he?”

“I’ll bet he’ll call you at work this  afternoon, or at my house this evening. He’s probably
so busy he forgot to let you know that his  plans had changed.” Maggie went out the front door and
walked to her car.

“I’ll meet you back at the office.”

Climbing into the tidy ‘97  Saturn, Maggie backed out into the street to  wait for her coworker to
follow in the Camaro.

From next door Andy yelled at his old man. They’re leaving! You’d better do something fast!”

Maggie pulled  down the street a  few yards and watched  in her rearview mirror  as Stephanie backed
down the  driveway. Confident that her  young friend was  safe, she then  coasted to the end  of the
street and rounded the corner.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

263

Reaching up to the visor, Stephanie pressed the door  opener and waited for the garage door to shut.
It rolled  down a few inches,  then jerked to  a stop and retracted  back to its open  position. She
tried again. The motor,  nearly shorted out, again refused to push the  door down. Stephanie glanced
over  at the  Kostecki  home. Al  was nowhere  to  be seen.  It  was then  she remembered  Mitch’s
itinerary, sitting inside  on the countertop. The airline  could confirm if he had  made his flight.
Leaving the car  idling on the driveway,  she took one last  peek over at the  neighboring house and
made a dash for the open garage.

Meanwhile, Al had bolted from  the front room and out the back door.  Together with his no-good son,
he lumbered out onto the street and up the driveway, stopping in front of the garage. Al panted like
a dog on the prowl. “Go to front door. . . . Now I show the girl real man.”

Andy backtracked to  the idling Camaro and,  leaning through the driver’s-side  window, yanked the
keys from  the ignition.  Inside the  house, Stephanie  folded the  itinerary and  shoved it  in her
handbag. Then she headed  back to the garage. The sound of the  overhead garage door creaking closed
stopped her in her  tracks. Looking up she watched the door handle  turn. “Maggie, is that you?”
No one answered. “Maggie?” The eery silence made the hair on her neck stand on end.

Two blocks away  Maggie pulled to the side of  the road to make sure Stephanie  was still following.
She hadn’t rounded the corner from the cul-de-sac.

Meanwhile, Stephanie fled to the  front door, her only means of escape. Just  then Al shoved his fat
head  through the  garage door,  a lewd  grin  stretched across  his cheeks.  Stephanie twisted  the
deadbolt. The flimsy  door burst inward, knocking her  to the ground. Andy scampered  in, closed the
door behind him and set the broken bolt. “Where’s your man?” he smiled, hitching up his bikini
shorts. Stephanie wriggled backwards  in a desperate bid to escape. Al reached  down from behind and
grabbed a fistful of her  long blond hair and jerked her to her feet.  Only a slight whimper slipped
from her lips. “This vitch say I not real man. Time real man teach you thing or two.”

Stephanie’s adrenaline  rocketed; then  her mind  kicked in. “My  friend will  be back  here any
second,” she warned, her nostrils flaring in a mixture of rage and dread.

“Andy,” yelled the louse of a neighbor, “turn on stereo with good 264 KEN MERRELL

rock  and roll.  Make  loud so  nobody hear  screams.”  Andy cranked  up  the music  as Al  jerked
Stephanie’s face up close  to his. “Real men always make vomans scream.  Here, I show you.” He
reached out  and grabbed at Stephanie’s  blouse. In turn, she  reached out and dug  her nails deep
into the wretch’s face.

With  a violent  back-handed clout  Stephanie was  knocked to  the floor.  Andy, his  hormonal urges
raging, joined in, latching tightly onto the woman’s  wrists and pinning her to the floor. With Al
holding her by the ankles, the two hulking men made her desperate struggle seem futile.

Just as the gold Saturn pulled up the driveway,  Joan stomped out from her back door. In a tattered,
gaping robe and  dingy slippers, she marched  out to her car,  picked up a baseball  bat from behind
the  seat  and  came  toward  Maggie.  Seeing  the  wild  woman–wigless,  sullenfaced,  completely
determined–Maggie fought the panicky  chill that ran up her arms. She reached  over and locked her
door, then rummaged through her  purse for the small canister of pepper mace  she kept for just such
occasions.

The woman  marched right past  Maggie’s car to  where the Camaro  stood, reached through  the open
window and pressed the garage door opener. The door  began to groan open. Turning her steely gaze on
Maggie, she  gave a stern jerk  of the head–an invitation  for her to follow.  When Maggie climbed
from the car,  she was greeted by the beat  of pounding rock music coming from  inside the house. By
the time Maggie caught up to the fierce woman, she already had her ear pressed up against the garage
door, listening. “They’re up to no good.” She  motioned to the mace in Maggie’s hand. “You
know how to use that?”

Still  confused but  rapidly  grasping the  gravity  of the  moment, Maggie  nodded  and raised  the
canister.

Joan twisted  the knob and butted  the door inward. Maggie  followed. An unspeakably grim  sight met
their eyes. Two wild animals intent on their prey, one sitting on Stephanie’s legs, ripping at her
skirt, while Stephanie, thrashing and screaming, clawed and scratched at Andy’s wrists. Joan leapt
across the  kitchen floor  like a savage  ninja, swinging the  bat with  all her might.  Her second,
boomerang blow found its mark, landing at the  base of her husband’s skull. Apparently Al’s head
was the  one rock solid part  of his body,  because the sharp whack  seemed to not faze  the aroused
animal in

THE IDENTITY CHECK

265

the least. The third arcing swing, however, caught  him flush on the cheekbone, just below the right
eye, and Al  crumpled to the floor like a  fat walrus. Andy, meanwhile, had jumped  to his feet and,
while dodging her  blows, was attempting to harness  the maddened woman. He managed to  grab hold of
his mother just as she cocked to unleash yet another swipe. But it was Maggie who stepped to bat and
delivered a  home-run hit  of pepper spray,  sending Andy  sprawling to his  knees near  his father.
Stephanie sat  up and wrapped  her arms around  her quivering knees.  Tears streaking her  face, she
brought her  hands to her chest  to secure her blouse.  “I knew you’d come,”  she whispered in
shock, her words drowned  out by Andy’s cries and the unrelenting beat  of the music. Maggie knelt
and cradled her friend in her arms, vainly trying to curb her own shakes and shivers. “It’s over
now, you poor thing. It’s over.”

Joan sat nearby,  whimpering in pain. Traces  of over-spray from the disabling  liquid had spattered
back into her  face. She groped her way toward  the sink and splashed at her  searing eyes. Then she
stumbled into the living room  to squelch the noise coming from the radio.  Great sobs came from her
chest. Far worse  in its effect than  the hot javelin of  pepper mace, a boundless  rage and disgust
burned deep within. Her words came out in a raspy monotone. “I should’ve done that years ago.”
She sagged at the foot of the couch, panting, blinded by pain and despair. “Hope I killed him. . .
.  He’s nothin’  but a  . .  .” Her  salty words  were cut  short by  a violent  coughing fit.
“Cops’ll be here . . . any minute,” she sputtered.  “I–I knew they was up . . . to no good
the–the  second they  left the  house.” Another  series  of retching  coughs reduced  Joan to  a
pathetic lump  who could barely find  the strength to  wipe her runny  nose and weepy eyes  with her
robe’s frazzled fringe. The  single squad car arrived only seconds before  Agents Barnes and Horne
pulled to the  curb, almost 15 minutes from  the original call. Clint eased into  the cul-de-sac and
circled back  out. Climbing from  their vehicle, the  agents watched him  drive away. Barnes  made a
mental note of the man’s  face and car’s plates. Then, squinting down at  the name tag pinned to
the crisp blue shirt and drawing his Federal ID from his jacket, he addressed the police officer.

“Officer . . . Fitzgerald, I’m Agent Barnes. You on the job?”

“Domestic. . . . Regulars. Looks like it spilled into the house next door. Can you back me up?”

Halfway up the walk the men paused. A woman’s shrill scream 266 KEN MERRELL

poured from the  closed doorway in front. “Lay back  down, or I’ll open your thick  skull like I
did your old man!”

In reply came a  younger man’s defiant voice. “He’s going to kill  you–if he ain’t already
dead!”

“No, Andy. He did that a long time ago. There’s so many times I wished I was dead . . .”

Barnes motioned  Horne to take the  garage. Fitzgerald tugged at  his vest and banged  on the screen
door. Crouching to the side, he called out, “Police!”

“Come  in!”  the  woman barked.  The  sound  of  crashing  pots  and pans  and  elevated  voices
reverberated throughout  the house. Tugging on  the screen door’s latch,  Fitzgerald discovered it
was locked.

Simultaneously  from inside  the garage,  Agent Horne  cracked  the door  open and  peered into  the
kitchen, where  there stood  Joan’s own  flesh-and-blood, a  bat in  his hand,  shaking it  at his
mother, who lay  on the floor. “You ain’t got  it in you, you old whore,”  threatened the son,
still reeling from  the sting of pepper spray.  Turning toward the front door,  Andy yelled, “Stay
out, cop, or I’ll bust the old lady good!”

Horne’s  pulse went  into overdrive  as he  sized up  the situation.  He was  pretty sure  the kid
didn’t know he was there. Did protocol allow him to  enter and take out the guy? Or should he stay
put for the moment?

“Andy, is that you?” Fitzgerald yelled through the screen.

“I ain’t kiddin’,” Andy snarled. “You stay out or I’ll bust her good!”

“Andy, it’s Officer  Fitzgerald. You’ve got to calm  down now and not do anything  to make the
situation worse.”

Andy let a  string of profanities slide off his  tongue. Then he cursed his mother,  blaming her for
the puddle of  blood his old man  was lying in. Fitzgerald  appealed to the kid’s  sense of logic.
“If the old man’s hurt, don’t you think we better get an ambulance on the way?”

“Yeah, do  that. Get  an ambulance  before he  bleeds to  death.” Through  the pain  and blurred
vision, Andy looked away from his mother, trying to focus on the pitiful sight of his old man, lying
face down on the floor.

Fitzgerald leaned to the mike on his shoulder, summoning both back up and an ambulance. Horne seized
the split second  distraction and burst through the  kitchen door, his gun aimed  at Andy’s chest.
“FBI!”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

267

he yelled. “Drop the bat and lay down on the floor!”

Andy wheeled on the balls of his feet, his foggy eyes staring down the barrel of a new Glock-23.

“Don’t shoot!” he begged, dropping the bat and cowering to the floor.

“We didn’t do nothin’. We was just teasin’ her, is all.”

Backing up  Fitzgerald from on the  porch, Barnes listened to  the new voice from  inside the house.
“That’s my partner.” Both men tore at the screen, wrenching the door open.

By now  Joan had raised herself  to her feet  and slogged into the  kitchen. Amid all the  noise and
confusion, she again  snatched up the bat.  Horne called out. The  bat came down with  a crack. Andy
screamed in pain and grabbed at his limp arm. A  shot rang out, and the bat fell from Joan’s hand,
bounced end-to-end  on the  floor and rolled  to a  stop at  the base of  the cupboards.  Barnes and
Fitzgerald,  having entered  the scene,  bulldozed Andy  into the  wall and  down onto  his stomach.
Despite a broken  arm, they cinched the  cuffs up tight. Then  they attended to the  gaping wound in
Joan’s arm.  Down the  hall in the  bedroom, a chair  propped up  against the door,  Stephanie and
Maggie huddled  against the  wall of  clothing in  the closet.  The screams,  the fighting,  the gun
shot–it sounded like the house was being torn apart. A minute later there came a loud knock at the
barricaded  door.  “It’s over,  ladies.  I’m  Federal Agent  Barnes.  You  can come  out  now.
Everything’s secured.”

Maggie helped  Stephanie to her feet  and led her to  the bed before unblocking  the door. Stephanie
collapsed sideways  on the  mattress, arms drawn  to her chest  and knees  to her stomach,  a mother
protecting her  unborn children.  The trembling,  the shock,  the harrowing  impact of  what she’d
witnessed would not go away.

“Shh, shh,” Maggie soothed, brushing a clump of  tear-soaked hair from the growing bruise on the
girl’s cheek. “I’m here; everything’s safe now.”

Barnes, still  following the draconian  rules of the  department, brandished his  identification and
cautiously kept his distance as he spoke. “Are you hurt?”

“Mostly traumatized,” Maggie replied, continuing to stroke Stephanie’s hair. She stepped a bit
closer to the agent and whispered,

“She’s the poor girl they were after.”

“Two more ambulances are  on the way. We need to  get her to the hospital for  an examination. . .
.” Barnes’s eyes narrowed. “Was she raped?”

268 KEN MERRELL

It was never an easy question to ask.

Maggie shook her head. “No, thank goodness. That brave little lady next door stopped them.”

“I have several questions . . .” Barnes  hesitated. “–but they can wait.” He bent over the
prone figure, speaking softly.  “Mrs. Wilson, I need to look around. Is  that okay?” A terse nod
sent Barnes out of the  room. The ambulances arrived, along with the brass from  the Las Vegas PD, a
female agent, and one  of the Bureau’s forensics special agents. Three  hours later, Stephanie and
Maggie were sitting in  the office of the FBI to be interviewed.  The forensics expert had confirmed
that the blood from Mitch’s driveway matched that of Agent Mike Hale. And Ritter? Still stubbornly
closed-mouthed, he  was resting in  a Federal cell  two floors down. There  he lay, waiting  for his
answer to a 50 thousand dollar question.

All the  evidence pointed to an  open-and-shut case. Agent Barnes  had called the SAC’s  office to
request a Federal warrant  be issued for the arrest of Mitchell Ray  Wilson for the suspected murder
of Federal Agent Mike Hale.

It was a  killer migraine that plagued Logan  Field, 52-year-old Special Agent in Charge  of the Las
Vegas  district.  After swallowing  the  pill  with  a glass  of  water,  he  slumped at  his  desk,
eyes  closed, his  knuckles  pummeling his  temples.  The day’s  crazy  events–coupled with  the
still-missing agent–rested  like anvils on his  pounding brain. Angling  the heel of his  hand, he
massaged at  his shiny forehead, then  ran his fingers  across his thinning, short-cropped  stand of
salt-and-pepper hair and  down his tight neck. The  muscles that connected at the base  of his skull
seemed  to be  the source  of the  throbbing. Finally  letting go  of the  nape of  his neck,  Field
muttered, “So, this Ritter guy won’t give it up without money?”

Barnes shook his head. “He’s ready to lawyer up.”

“And you think Hale’s dead and that this Mitchell Wilson is to blame?”

Barnes nodded. “No doubt, he’s involved.”

“His wife willing to talk?”

“I don’t know. Maybe if we get enough on him, she’ll decide to give him up.”

“What are the chances Mr. Ritter can post bail on assault charges?”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

269

“Virtually none. He’s a vagrant. He’s got nothing to lose, everything to gain.”

Field slid his wire-rim glasses down his nose, stuck  a finger in the corner of his tired, bloodshot
left eye, and pushed. “I’ll give you one day. If you find Hale’s body, we’ll tell Mr. Ritter
to take a hike. Otherwise, for the family’s  sake, you pay the price.” Field inched the drooping
glasses back  up onto the  bridge of his  nose. “I haven’t  lost an agent  in nine years.  I was
hoping to retire that way.”

Barnes nodded. “I know, sir.”

As Barnes turned to  leave, Fields said, “Oh, one more thing. Have  this Mitchell Wilson arraigned
on assault, not murder. And leave Hale’s name out  of the court. We don’t need the media on this
thing yet.” He  drew the glasses from his face  and squeezed his eyes shut. “Have  you talked to
Agent Hale’s contact?”

Barnes shook his head and issued a clicking sound with his cheeks.

“He never would disclose the name–said it was too risky.”

“Find him. Maybe he can  shed some light on this whole thing. Call Salt  Lake and get their office
on it as well.” He replaced the glasses on his nose. “Three months to go,” he lamented, “and
I lose a borrowed man from Utah. Issue the warrant. Do whatever it takes to find Wilson.”

270 KEN MERRELL

THIRTY-TWO

TOMMY’S HAIR  EMPORIUM was situated  off Charleston near  10th Street, sandwiched  between Quality
Tattoo and Roxane’s Exotic Gifts & Chapel of Love. Its windows, like those of every other business
on the  street, were  protected by  heavy metal  bars. In that  part of  town, protection  meant the
difference between staying in business and going belly up.

Sound lurked  in the  doorway of the  hair salon,  while Greg  waited in the  Yellow Cab  out front,
staring at the leather straps and chains dangling from the life-size, almost nude cardboard model in
the window of the neighboring business. Bold block letters beneath the tantalizing cutout advertised
“Roxane’s Weekly  Special.” His mind  harkened back to the  first time he’d  ever considered
cheating on his  wife. In fact, his eyes had  begun to stray months earlier, captured  in the web of
pornography.  His  clergy had  offered  council  on porn’s  dangers,  how  it eventually  destroys
self-esteem, relationships, careers .  . . but he hadn’t listened. Month after  month of visits to
increasingly explicit and  exotic web sites soon lost  its luster. Before he knew what  had hit him,
the most  common, everyday incident  could turn  his thoughts inside  out; the most  innocent notion
could exist side by side  in his head with the most vile fantasy, each mingling  with the other in a
swirling,  dark  pool. Even  at  the  time,  he’d marveled  at  the  remarkable swiftness  of  the
transformation. And  soon he discovered  that the love  and tenderness he  felt in his  marriage had
slipped, replaced by the lure of an  illicit, flesh-and-blood relationship with another woman. Sound
called from the doorway. “She’s almost finished.”  His eyes continued to twitch nervously back
and forth, darting from the cab to the salon and out to the street.

Greg checked his wristwatch, now back where it belonged.  In fact, a lot of things were finally back
to  normal. While  staying at  the  T-bird, he’d  been restored  to  the world  of bathing,  using
deodorant, shaving,

THE IDENTITY CHECK

271

intentionally “dressing down,” once  again enjoying all the simple pleasures.  Now there he sat,
victim of a fresh, too-short  haircut, dressed in a new pair of dark green  chinos and a casual golf
shirt, looking like a businessman  on his day off rather than the homeless  bum he’d been only the
day before.  Fingering the watch,  he couldn’t help thinking  about Reverend Keller  returning the
gift, while at the same time tricking him into  admitting to himself that he needed help if he hoped
to resolve  the issues of his  failed marriage. He peered  out to where Sound  stood. Finally he’d
waited long enough.

“We’re going to be late,” he called out as he opened the door and climbed from the cab.

Sound shrieked and danced from the shop, his arms waving in the air like an excited school girl’s.
“Wait a  minute–you’ll ruin the surprise!”  he fussed. Greg  peered down the street.  On the
corner three young  black men stood, holding skateboards  in their hands. They were  chatting with a
woman  in her  early 20s,  dressed in  tight  clothing and  wearing ultrahigh  heels. Distracted  by
Sound’s squeals of delight, their attention was drawn to the ridiculous scene.

Slightly shamed by the ruckus, Greg slunk back to the partial shelter of the cab, insulating himself
from their glares. Then it hit him: he’d been  embarrassed by Sound. Here he was, back amongst the
living,  and he  was  ashamed. Had  the  change  somehow influenced  hisfeelings  about respect  and
acceptance of others? He bowed  his head. Sound was his friend, someone who  was willing to risk his
own life for others, a man who was unafraid to be himself, regardless of the way others saw him.

“Don’t be  mad at me,” Sound  smiled, resting his hand  on Greg’s as he  gripped the cab’s
door frame. “I just don’t want you to ruin the fun.”

Greg looked down  at Sound’s slender fingers, then  across the sidewalk at the tall  black man who
stepped from  the salon. Dressed  in tight black  stretch pants, cut  below the knee,  a sleeveless,
shimmering  purple shirt  that  exposed his  midriff  halfway up  his  stomach and  a  tall pair  of
blacksuede  platform dress  shoes, he  folded at  the waist  and fluttered  his arm  in a  flourish.
“Presenting the lovely Ms.  Lambert,” his voice thundered in the manner of  a vaudeville act. He
stepped aside,  continuing to  roll his wrist  in less  pronounced flourishes as  if trying  to coax
someone into the street. From the shadows of  the room appeared Nurse, a southern-belle wild 272 KEN
MERRELL

flower, dressed  in a  light-blue outfit that  fell below her  knees and  buttoned at the  neck. Her
stringy, gray hair  no longer lay flat against  her head. Instead it was precisely  gathered into an
old-fashioned yet stylish bun  at the back of her head. Layers of  carefully applied make-up covered
years of  harsh exposure to the  elements, and a small,  matching handbag hung at  her wrist. Sound,
placing a  hand to his mouth,  gasped, “Oh my .  . .” The words  were cut short by  a muffle. He
turned to see Greg’s reaction. “Isn’t she the most beautiful thing you ever saw?”

Greg came  to his feet as  the old woman  strolled out onto the  sidewalk, reached to her  waist and
grabbed a  large handful of  dress. Then she  hiked it up  and wiggled her  hips from side  to side.
“Mercy be,”  she groused. “Never did  like ‘em as a  girl and don’t think  much a’ ‘em
now. An’ you two stop starin’ like you ain’t never seen a woman in a new dress ‘fore.”

A smile plastered across his face, Greg shook  his head and mumbled something to Sound. “Just like
an old barn. No matter how nice you paint the outside, if you open the doors and don’t get out the
pitchfork the inside’s still full of the same old crap.”

“I heard that,” carped Nurse. “I might be half blind but I ain’t deaf.

‘Sides, what d’ you know ‘bout barns?”

Sound raised his arms in frustration. “I finished my part, now it’s up to you, Sunny.”

Nurse shuffled across the walk and plowed Greg aside as she dragged herself into the cab and plopped
down in the rear seat. “Now let’s get the lead out ‘fore I go an’ change my mind.”

Greg slammed the door shut  and placed one hand on Sound’s shoulder as he  led him around the back
of the cab.  “You did a good job,  Sound. A real good  job. I don’t know what  we’d do without
you.”

Sound took a deep breath  and stood a bit straighter. “I watched real  close while Tommy fixed her
up. I should be able to get her ready every morning.”

“Good,” said Greg. “Mitch will meet you at the T-Bird by four.” He paused and removed a slip
of paper from his pocket.  “Call us at the doctor’s office by five and  tell me our new address.
Here’s the number.”

“He found a condo?”

“I sure hope so.”

“Me too.”

“I’ll hear from you by five then?”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

273

“You can  count on it.  . . .”  Sound hesitated. “By the  way. You look  real nice in  the new
clothes. . . . And I’m not trying to make a pass at you.”

Greg smiled, opened the door to the cab  and said, “You cleanup pretty good yourself. Let’s just
hope Cap’n and Ritter look just as sharp.”

He’d already  climbed into  the rear seat  and pulled the  door closed,  when Sound rapped  on the
glass, his fretting face peering inside. “Have we heard from Ritter?”

Greg rolled down the window. “Nobody’s seen him.”

“I don’t like it.”

“Me neither,” Nurse chimed in. “‘At boy’s always had a mind a’ his own. . . .”

“You think he’d turn on us?” Greg asked.

“Don’t think so, but it wouldn’t be a bad thing you watch your backside a leavin’ the T-bird
now, ya’ hear?” Nurse  administered her mild scolding while shaking her  crooked finger at Sound
and blowing air through her loose lips in a soft whistle. Sound agreed and watched the cab pull from
the curb, still speculating about what Ritter might do if given the chance.

Indeed, Ritter stood in  front of a Federal judge, chained hand and  foot, his young court-appointed
defense attorney–only 15 minutes familiar with his case–at his side. Two Federal security agents
were stationed close at hand. The judge scrolled up and down the charges through his bifocals as the
green lawyer advised his new client. “This is a preliminary hearing,” he whispered. “Just keep
your mouth shut and let me do the talking.”

Ritter  bristled. “What  you thinkin’,  mate, I  ain’t never  been in  a bloomin’  courtroom
before?”

Annoyed by the murmurings coming from below his  bench, the judge looked up over his glasses. “Mr.
Ritter, do you know why you’re in my court this afternoon?” he growled.

“Sure  do, mate.  Popped a  guard in  the mouth  wit’ me  broken hand,  I did.  And wit’  good
reason.”  He turned  smugly  and stared  over  at  the prosecuting  attorney.  “I had  important
information for the FBI.”

“Oh?” queried the judge, “and what might that information be?”

Ritter opened his mouth to answer, then thought better of it.

“Objection, your honor,” both defender and prosecutor said in uni-274 KEN MERRELL

son.

The  judge looked  back and  forth between  the  lawyers, as  if something  was awry.  The file  was
distinctly vague.  The man had  assaulted a Federal  agent early in  the morning, yet  hadn’t been
booked into Federal lockup until late in the afternoon.

“Approach the  bench, counsel.”  Both came  forward, staring up  apprehensively at  the seasoned
magistrate. “What’s going on here?” he asked, holding his hand over the microphone. “We’ve
got the  FBI’s best prosecutor  assigned to keep  this man behind  bars, and the  court’s newest
defender trying to keep  him from getting fried.” The judge stole a  brief glance at the appointed
prosecution.

“Nothing’s going on Your Honor,” he said. “This  is just a preliminary hearing, not a trial.
The man admitted to assaulting the security guard. All we need to do is decide bail.”

A  hint of  a scoff  erupted from  the judge’s  lips. “I’m  aware of  the protocol  in my  own
courtroom, counsel.”  He turned from the  more seasoned attorney to  the less. “And why  did you
object?”

“Your Honor, I’ve barely had fifteen minutes to examine this case, and you’re asking questions
that could convict my client before I’ve had time to get answers.”

The judge nodded. “It appears to me the man has  something he wants to say. I think the court will
allow him to say it. Take your seats.”

Both men returned to their places. “Mr. Ritter, you may continue.”

Ritter gave  the prosecutor  his patented  ‘told you so!’  smirk. “Like  I was  sayin’, your
Honor, I had a fine  good reason t’ pop ‘im.” Ritter paused to get every  mile out of the drop
of fuel for which he was about to pay. “The bloke woke me from a fine dream,” Ritter continued.

“See, this beautiful blonde was kissin’ on me face. . .”

“Enough!” The judge came to  his feet. Here in a court of law, he  and two other highly educated
men had been made to look foolish–by an uneducated  man, no less, a smelly tramp with a smug grin.
“The court finds reason to bind this man over for trial. Do you have a recommendation for bail?”
He turned to the prosecutor.

“Fifty-thousand dollars, your Honor. We feel . . .”

The judge rapped his mallet on the bench. “Bail’s set at fifty-thousand. Next case.”

As  he was  led  from  the courtroom,  Ritter,  still  gloating, peered  over  his  shoulder at  the
prosecutor. They both knew the information he had kept

THE IDENTITY CHECK

275

secret couldn’t remain hidden  forever. And Ritter alone knew the aces he  kept up his sleeve were
about to up the ante.

“I’m sorry to keep you so long, Mrs.  Wilson.” Barnes stepped back into the box-like interview
room, Horne  close in tow. “We’re  almost finished. We just  have a few more  questions. Are you
feeling better?” Stephanie nodded. “Can I get you a coffee or soda or something?”

“No, I just want to go home.”

“This shouldn’t take much longer, but it’s very  personal. Are you sure you want Mrs. Champion
to stay with you?”

“Yes.” Stephanie gave a reaffirming squeeze to the motherly hand holding her own.

“Mrs. Wilson,” Barnes continued, taking a notepad from his pocket and sliding out a chair. “Do
you know where your husband is?”

Stephanie looked  at Maggie, then  back at Barnes.  “I think he’s in  St. Louis at  a vocational
competition.”

“Have you ever heard of a man named Clint Thurston?”

“No.”

“How about a Vincent Domenico?”

“No.”

“Do you know Mike Hutchings?”

“Sure. He’s Mitch’s boss.”

“He’s also a Federal agent, assigned to our office  from Utah, involved in a case that has to do
with stolen antique cars.”

Stephanie’s eyes shot back  and forth between the two agents, trying to  decide if the whole thing
was some sort of rotten prank. “What does this have to do with Mitch?”

“We think Mitch is involved.  It’s very important we find him as soon  as possible. Are you sure
he’s in St. Louis?”

Stephanie lowered her head and pulled her hair back with her hands.

“I tried to call his hotel. He didn’t check in.”

“We know. He didn’t get on the flight, either.”

Stephanie shook her  head. “Are you implying Mitch  has been stealing cars? Because if  you are, I
can prove he’s been fixing up those cars himself . . .”

“No, not at all. As a matter of fact we think one of his cars was stolen.”

Barnes  motioned toward  Horne,  who  opened the  door  and waited  while  someone  wheeled a  small
television and video player into the room and 276 KEN MERRELL

plugged it into the wall. Barnes continued, “This  is our video surveillance from Mike’s shop on
Friday evening. We’ve had our department put in captions because at times it’s hard to hear what
they’re saying.”

The screen went to static, then the tape whirred into motion. The image was of inside Mike’s shop.
Stephanie had been there once or twice to see what her husband was working on. Mike was talking on a
cell phone, but the audio was mute. Then it came on. “He’s already had his car stolen . .

.” The sound went off  again. The tape had obviously been edited. The door  to the shop opened and
Mitch sauntered in.  Mike looked toward the door  and said, “Hey, I’ll talk to  you later. Mitch
just walked in.”

“I didn’t know you had a cell phone,” Mitch said.

“Just got it.”

“Cool. Do you mind if I work on my wife’s car for a minute?”

“No  problem. How’d  it go  with  the GTO?”  At this  point,  Mitch paused,  blinked hard  and
swallowed. “Not sogood.” He turned toward the bay door.

“What happened?”

“The sucker ripped me off. Planned it for several days.” Mitch’s back still toward the camera,
the words appeared across the screen.

“The worst part is, I think Bino set me up.”

“How’s that?”

Mitch turned slowly. “Claimed he told Janice to tell me not to lethim take it. She says it was the
other way around.”

“Look, kid, you’re dealing with some rough men. Did you call thecops?”

“No. The car was running illegal plates.”

“Doesn’t matter. They can still take down a report.”

“I’ve got to see Janice. She knows more about him than anybodyelse.”

“You want some help? I might make a better snoop than a bodyman.”

Horne hit  the stop  button on  the video  player and turned  off the  television. “Have  you seen
Mitch’s GTO the last few days?”

“No .  . .  but Mitch  would have  told me about  all this,”  she replied,  a tad  surly. “And
you’re only showing bits and pieces of the tape.  How do I know that what you’re showing isn’t
taken out of context?”

Barnes cocked his head. “You saw his face. You tell me, was it for real?”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

277

Stephanie remained tight-lipped.

“We have more,”  Horne said as he picked  up a legal-size pad from the  television cart. “Last
Thursday  night Mitch  was  involved  in an  armed  robbery.  This is  a  composite  drawing from  a
witness.” He dropped a computer sketch of Mitch  on the table. “A description of the getaway car
matches the car in your garage–a car with stolen plates.”

“Mitch would never rob anybody.”

“Mrs. Wilson, are you aware that your husband has a criminal record?”

“Yes, but . . .” Stephanie bit her lip and turned to Maggie. “Maybe I need an attorney.”

Barnes lifted a hand. “Mrs. Wilson, you’re  not being charged with anything. However, Mitch will
need a  good attorney–unless he can  explain several of his  actions. Please hear me  out. We need
your help. A Federal warrant’s been issued for the arrest of your husband.” Horne slid a copy of
the warrant in front  of the woman. Stephanie skimmed through the charges.  “Suspected Murder? . .
.”

Once again her lips tightened  in concern, but she kept her composure. Her  tears had all been spent
earlier in  the day. Finally she  said, “I can’t  listen to any  more of this. This  isn’t the
Mitch I know; this can’t all be happening. . . .”

“I know this is hard, Mrs. Wilson, but there’s more, please . . .”

“No, no.” She stood. “We need to talk about this later. I can’t listen to anymore.”

Barnes’ voice became  more insistent. “You have  to listen to me.  Someone may be after  you . .
.”

Stephanie edged  toward the door. “No!”  she sobbed, a tearless  cry as if her  heart had burst.
“I c-can’t . . .” She fled from the room and down the hallway.

Maggie also stood to leave, but Barnes blocked her  exit. “We’ll send a unit to watch your place
tonight. Will you bring her back in the morning?”

“If she’ll come.” Maggie eased Barnes to the side and went to catch up with her friend.

Nurse’s body had become one rigid, bony bundle  of nerves. Her foot twitching, her knobby knuckles
bone-white,  she  sat  coiled  in  Dr.  Clark’s  examination  chair.  The  ophthalmologist  smiled
reassuringly. 278 KEN MERRELL

“Mrs. Lambert, this is a pretty simple procedure. We do it a half-dozen times each day.”

Brooding like a  rankled robot, Nurse shot  back, “I ain’t never  had no doctor look  in my eyes
‘fore.”

The doctor lowered his overhead light and rolled back  in his chair. “It wasn’t so bad then, was
it?”

“You finished–‘at’s it?”

“I’ve seen enough to  know you’ve gone without your sight too long.  The procedure to make you
see again takes about forty  minutes per eye. It’s almost painless, and in  a few days you’ll be
seeing  like  you did  ten  or  fifteen years  ago.  You  may not  even  need  glasses when  we’re
finished.”

“You gotta cut my eyes?”

“We use an ultrasound  to break up the deposits, then  we suck out the broken pieces  and sew on a
new lens.”

“Doc,” pressed Nurse, “you’s  been avoidin’ my question. You’ll be  puttin’ a knife in
my eyes, won’t you?”

Doctor Clark glanced over at Greg, sitting quietly  against the wall, then back at Nurse. “Yes,”
he answered, a deliberateness to his voice,

“I’ll need to cut the old lens off to remove the cataract.”

“Will I be a’sleepin’ or awake while’s this whole thing’s goin’ on?”

“You’ll be awake. We’ll put some drops in your eyes to deaden the pain.”

A series of grumblings came  from her mouth. “Feel like an ol’ heifer ten  months pregnant . . .
hurt if I do, more if I don’t . . .”

“I beg your pardon?” Dr. Clark sat staring at the strange old woman, clearly puzzled.

Nurse stared back. “You best  stop flappin’ your gums and get after it  then, ‘fore I go an’
change my mind.”

Realizing the patient had given permission to proceed, Dr. Clark left the room to instruct his staff
to prepare  for surgery. Greg walked  over and gave Nurse’s  arm a pat, her  hands still clutching
tightly the arms of the chair.

Her cloudy eyes rested on her friend. She’d never felt so vulnerable, so utterly helpless. “What
if somethin’ goes wrong an’ I never see again? Been one a’ my nightmares since th’ first day
I knew I was losin’ my sight.”

Greg’s hand kept up its calming caress. “Dr. Clark’s done hundreds of these procedures.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

279

“But what if somethin’ happens . . .”

“Well. . .  since we’ve already slept together, I  guess I’d have to marry you.  I’d be your
eyes, and we’d live happily ever after, you holding onto my arm wherever we went.”

Nurse lifted  one skeletal  hand and  rested it  on the younger  man’s, the  corners of  her mouth
creasing into  a soft smile. “That’s  a fine offer, Sunny.  But there’s only one  thing wrong.
Couldn’t never marry a man still carryin’

a flame for ‘nother woman.” The room took on  an awkward silence, as both reflected on their own
weighty problems. “One thing you better do since  you got me in this mess,” Nurse finally added.
“Sit with me an’ hold my hand ‘til it’s over.”

Greg’s tender smile, which he riveted directly in  front of the old woman’s weary eyes, conveyed
much more than mere words. “I won’t leave you–I promise.”

280 KEN MERRELL

THIRTY-THREE

THE WINDOWS  OF THE three-bedroom, unfurnished  apart-ment on the  fourth floor looked out  over the
roof-tops of  the ethnically mixed, lower-middle-class  neighborhood. Farther to the  southwest, one
could see the towering Las Vegas Hilton rising above the convention center. Mitch stood on the small
balcony, gazing  out on the  part of town  where Stephanie worked. Why  hasn’t she come  back from
lunch? Kirsten had been of absolutely no help, and no one had answered at Maggie’s house.

“Come on, Lightnin’, we better get back,”  Cap’n insisted. “Sound’ll be waitin’ at the
T-bird.”

Mitch stepped inside and glided the balcony door shut. He marveled at the changes that had come over
the big black man. Nearly clean-shaven, he wore a pair of coveralls–that looked like they’d been
sewn by Omar the tentmaker–over a white T-shirt  that bulged at the biceps. Despite his cleaned-up
appearance, however, he still had on the same  old pair of combat boots. “Thanks but no thanks,”
is all  he’d say when  asked if he  wanted a new pair.  The skin on  his face appeared  smooth and
tender from the  years of cover the old beard  had offered. A small, thin, well  trimmed grey goatee
now made a light shadow  across his jaw and chin. His bushy eyebrows had  been trimmed, and with the
nose-and  ear-hair removed,  he actually  looked quite  normal–even ten  years younger.  The worry
etched in Mitch’s face was evident. “I’ve got to find her.”

“I know,  but we better  wait for orders  from Nurse or Sunny.  You can’t be  wanderin’ around
town, not with Mr. Vinnie out lookin’ for you.”

“I can’t stand  around waiting, either,” replied  Mitch. “You go back to  the T-bird without
me. I’ll help Smitty shave and meet you back here later tonight, after I find her.”

Smitty poked his mop-haired head from the bathroom door down

THE IDENTITY CHECK

281

the hall and  shook it defiantly. Cap’n smiled,  then said, “I’ll agree on  one condition: You
don’t leave ‘til Smitty’s bathed and dressed in his new clothes.”

A worried smile crossed Mitch’s face. “Deal.”

Cap’n extended his thick  hand as a gesture of understanding and wrapped  his stout fingers around
Mitch’s firm yet more slender grip. “Deal,” Cap’n smiled. “Smitty’s always had some sort
of fear of water. Unless you’re a stronger man than me, you’ll still be here when I get back.”
Cap’n went out the door.

At the click of the  lock, Smitty’s face again appeared from down the  hall, staring at Mitch. The
expression signaled genuine dread, as if he’d lock  himself in the bathroom forever if anyone even
mentioned the ‘B-word.’

“It’s a good  thing this place came  with a fridge,” Mitch said  in a loud voice  as he walked
across the living room and into the kitchen.

“We won’t be eating at any soup kitchens for a while. Not until we take care of Mr. Vinnie, that
is.” He pulled himself up on the countertop.

“I wonder what Mr. Vinnie will do if he gets his hands on my wife . . .”

That brought Smitty creeping out  of the bathroom. Down the hallway he came,  worming up next to the
refrigerator, nearly out of sight, to listen.

“Her name’s  Stephanie,” Mitch carried on,  a trace of  sadness in his voice.  “She’s been
trying to  choose baby names. Did  I tell you  she’s pregnant with twins?  . . .” He  raised his
bowed  head enough  to see  Smitty–barely visible  through the  space between  the fridge  and the
wall–shake his head no. “I saw these tiny  x-rays called sonograms the other day. The doc thinks
they’re a boy and a girl.” A sheepish smile wrinkled Mitch’s forehead. “I asked if they were
identical. . . . Imagine that, a boy and a girl identical.” The vision of Stephanie sitting at the
kitchen table, drawing a strand of long blond  hair up behind her ear, flashed through his thoughts.
Where was she? Was he too late? The sound of running water roused Mitch from his daydream. He hopped
from the  counter and peered  down the  hallway toward the  bathroom. Smitty’s dirty  clothes were
strewn along  the floor in  threefoot intervals. The  last piece, a  pair of grimy-gray  briefs, lay
halfway outside the open doorway.

Mitch wagged  his head and  pinched the bridge  of his nose between  his thumb and  forefinger. With
hardly any effort at all he’d just co-282 KEN MERRELL

erced a man who was deathly frightened of soap and water into taking a bath. However he’d done it,
it was justified.  Stephanie needed him now, not  in an hour or two.  He had to find her,  or at the
very least  call and remind  her he loved  her. And  it might be  handy having the  little lock-pick
along, in case  they needed to gain access  to Maggie’s house. The contrast between  the sleek red
Ferrari and the rusted-out  relic of a pump in front of the  practically abandoned Husky station was
too stark  for words. Equally  distinct were the  two men inside  the scratchedglass pay  booth. The
well-dressed one  stood screaming obscenities  and hurling accusations  at his listener.  The other,
settled calmly behind  his desk, rolled the  excess ash from the  tip of his cigarette.  There was a
graphic symmetry  to the  entire scene,  a meeting of  opposites, the  perfect blend  of self-styled
“grace” and ugly “gauche.”

From time  to time  the pay  booth literally  shook from the  one man’s  seething jolts  and jabs.
Finally, after what seemed like an avalanche of  thundering threats had rained down on him, the calm
one got to  his feet, pinched the  short butt of the  nearly smoked cigarette between  his thumb and
middle finger, and casually flicked it at the other. The trailing ash and sparks lingered for only a
moment, then dropped at their feet and died.

Vinnie blinked  in disbelief as Bino  looked him square in  the eye, mentally recording  what in all
likelihood would be the final seconds of his miserable life. The smoldering butt had struck headlong
on Vinnie’s  shirt collar,  then–as if  a camera were  clicking at  each instant,  recording the
surreal act for  all eternity–had taken a slow-motion  tumble down the lapel of his  silk suit and
landed on the  floor, its coiled smoke continuing to  rise in the foul, sultry air.  Both men stared
down at the  ground as Vinnie placed the  toe of his size-10  Gucci on the butt and  crushed out the
last of its life. Then, in a well-oiled maneuver,  he wrested the firearm from inside his jacket and
drew the hammer back. With cold steel pressed up against his temple, a remote shiver ran up Bino’s
spine. Then the death sentence was spoken: “Consider your debt paid in full.”

Bino, remarkably calm, closed his eyes to await his fate. “And yours,”

he whispered, “is just beginning.”

Vinnie, suddenly sensing  he was in the center of  a large spotlight, glared out the  window. A busy
Rancho Drive was too public a place

THE IDENTITY CHECK

283

for snuffing out a life–even if it was just  Bino. Jamming the gun back in its holster, he decided
to take a different tack. “Didn’t Jimmy once tell  me you have a daughter?” he said, his stony
disposition returning. Bino’s eyes flew open. His  voice came in jagged, halfway convincing cries.
“Jimmy was a . . . a liar!”

“And you’re a coward–always have been. ‘Sides, joinin’ Mike would only put you out of your
misery. I’m  gonna let you twist  in the wind a  while longer.” Vinnie scanned  the street again
before continuing. “Today  you’re ready to die, maybe  be a hero, or maybe restore  honor to the
family name–that’s  my bet.” With a  sudden wide sweep of  his arms, the wise  guy cleared the
three eye-level shelves of  their carefully arranged motor oil jugs,  cigarettes and car fresheners,
scattering the contents across the floor and desk. As he did so, a small video camera clattered down
onto the  dirty tile. On  its second bounce,  its cartridge panel popped  open, spewing out  a small
video tape. Bino stared  down at the tape, then up  at the mad man’s cold smile.  Vinnie let out a
contented grunt, then leaned over, picked up the tape and dropped it in his pocket. “Now where was
we before you so rudely  flung your garbage in my face?” He brushed a  stubborn ash from his lapel
and realigned  his jacket sleeves. “Oh,  I remember now.  You was volunteerin’ your  services to
find the kid and his pretty little wife for  me–for the which I’ll forget about the daughter you
don’t got, the Fed you lined me up with, and the cleaning bill for my suit.”

In slow surrender, Bino  slumped back into his chair and drew the  remaining filtered cigarette from
his shirt pocket. “What do . . . you want?” he asked, flicking open his lighter.

“The kid’s  wife was  seen with  an older  woman about noon.  Here’s the  plate number  of her
car.” He dropped a scrap of paper on the desk.

“You got an hour to call me with the address.” Vinnie slid the booth door open, then paused, his
back still  turned. “An’  if you ever  do anything like  that again,  I’ll blow your  knee cap
off.”

Maggie  pulled under  the single-car  carport at  the side  of her  modest home  and turned  off the
ignition. Long  shadows from the evening  sun stretched down the  driveway. Only the sound  of birds
chirping was heard on the quiet street. Gazing  into the rearview mirror, she watched the tan sedan,
which had followed them from the Federal building, pull up in front of the house.

284 KEN MERRELL

“Mitch lied to me,” grumbled Stephanie, finally breaking the silence. “He’s been lying to me
all along, from the  very beginning. He probably wasn’t an innocent bystander  in the robbery back
in high school–and now this. . . .”

The  expectant mother  bent over  and put  her face  in her  hands. Maggie  reached out  and stroked
Stephanie’s back. “Do you really believe that?”

“Yes . . .  no. . . . I don’t  know anymore,” she whimpered. “He’s been  lying to me about
going to church, and  . . . about going to the airport,  and . . . who knows about what  else. . . .
Now he’s wanted  for murder. What am I supposed  to believe?” She lifted her head  and wiped her
crimson nose with a crumpled tissue. “Wh-what do you think?”

“Well,  from my  experience,” Maggie  began, resting  her mature,  slender hand  on the  younger
woman’s arm, “when a man has given his heart to  the woman he loves, and she has given her heart
to  him–I mean  when they’ve  really given  their  hearts away–you  can look  right into  each
other’s soul  and know what  the other person  is feeling. Sometimes  it takes years  of practice,
other times only a few months. From what I know of you and Mitch, you’ve already given one another
that kind of love. Sure, you may still need some practice at understanding how the other is feeling,
but the love is there.”

“Do you really think so?”

“Can you ever imagine yourself being without Mitch?”

Stephanie’s distant gaze came to rest on a point beyond the windshield, far out toward the setting
sun. Finally she shook her head. “I can’t.”

“What if he was convicted of a serious crime?”

Turning to face the older woman, Stephanie’s mind flashed frame by frame through a hundred painful
memories, most revolving around her own mother’s slanderous  words. She could hear them now in her
mind. “He’s  a boy  from a junkyard,  Stephanie. He’ll never  amount toanything.  . . .  Is he
really guilty? . . . How do you know he’s innocent?

. . . Did he lie, or is this just  a wild misunderstanding? . . .” Then Stephanie asked a question
of her own, one only she could answer: “IsMitch capable of murder?”

“I don’t think so,” she said at last, “but I just don’t know.”

“Maybe that’s what you need to decide before we  go back and hear the rest of the evidence. Look
inside your heart, and then inside his. You’ll find the answer.” Maggie gave Stephanie’s arm a
final squeeze

THE IDENTITY CHECK

285

and said, “Now, we started out for lunch almost  eight hours ago. You said you were starving then,
by now I’ll bet you and those babies are famished.”

Stephanie let out a spent sigh. “Now that you mention it, I am.”

“Well let’s go inside and see what we can throw together.” Maggie began to reach for the door.
Stephanie cleared  her throat.  “Maggie, thank you.  . . .  I don’t  know what I’d  do without
you.”  Then, despite  the  river  of tears  she’d  cried  during the  day,  her  eyes welled  to
overflowing.

Maggie leaned back across the seat and gave the younger woman a gentle hug, her own eyes filled with
love and  compassion. “Oh,  you sweet  girl. I  wouldn’t dream  of letting  you go  through this
alone.”

Only three short miles from Maggie’s home, Mitch and Smitty stood shoulder to shoulder in front of
a bathroom mirror. Staring at their reflections, Mitch asked, “Don’t you know how to shave?”

Smitty shook his  head. He’d been standing at the  sink, dressed in his new clothes,  for at least
five minutes, the razor and can of shaving cream held limply in his hands.

“Didn’t you ever watch your dad shave?”

Smitty’s head  again wagged side  to side. Then  he went  into a routine  of pretending to  use an
electric razor. Mitch, his mind focused on Stephanie, hurriedly asked, “Would you like me to teach
you?”

Listlessly glancing up and down between the can and  razor in his hand and his scraggly image in the
mirror, the mute  locksmith struggled to make up  his mind. Tongue-tied since birth,  Smitty, now in
his late 40s, stared  past the stringy beard, past the rotting teeth  and long hair. Within seconds,
the lingering image staring back at him in the mirror was that of his own father.

Clarence Webber, Smitty’s  real name, was large of  head. Breach at birth, he was  the first child
born to  a young mother.  It was before  the days of modern  technology, in a  time when it  was not
uncommon for both mother  and child to die during childbirth, especially in  a small, Midwest county
hospital. And  indeed, according  to his stepmother  and half  siblings who lived  in the  same tiny
house, he would have been “better off dead, like her.”

Unable to  speak, write  or read, Clarence  could never  fully communicate his  feelings to  the one
person who loved him: his father. Through-286 KEN MERRELL

out  his unhappy  childhood, nearly  all others  had  been most  unkind. His  stepmother had  always
expressed a special hatred  towards him. Even as an infant he could  remember the desperate feelings
of helplessness,  of not being  able to take  a breath as  she held his  head under the  bath water.
Consciously, he couldn’t  remember the near drownings  at her hand, only the  painful awareness of
being hated.  For years  he kept his  feelings under wraps.  They only  surfaced when he  was around
water–of any sort–or when  he was confined to any small space. But  after a time those repressed
feelings became magnified a hundredfold, and he began to act out in more and more strange ways.

Up until his father’s sudden death, since Clarence was four years old, he’d worked constantly at
the man’s side. At  first, traipsing along-side the strapping young man as  he went about his work
as a  locksmith was merely an  act of self preservation.  But later, as the  “dumb Webber child”
honed the same talents his dad owned, it became an accomplishment no one had thought possible of the
boy. It wasn’t long after his father’s passing that his stepmother sold the family business, and
Smitty became  a casualty of the  homeless forgotten. Nurse, in  her goodness, had taken  him in and
nurtured and taught the boy the basic survival skills of the street. Now Smitty reached out to touch
the face  in the mirror, as  if greeting a long-lost  friend. Then he quickly  retracted his fingers
from the cold,  lifeless glass. Thrusting the razor  in front of Mitch, he nodded  a confirming yes.
Mitch squirted a blob  of cream in his own hand  and waited for Smitty to do  likewise. Then, like a
father-and-son team, he walked him through each simple step.

When five long minutes  had passed, the mirror reflected back two  clean-shaven faces, one unspotted
yet still tense,  the other smiling from  one ear clear across  to the other, his  face covered with
nicks and bits of bloody tissue.

“You clean up pretty good,  Smitty,” Mitch said, giving him a slap on  the back. “All you need
now is a haircut and a trip to the dentist.”

At mention of the word ‘dentist,’ Smitty’s smile faded, followed by a head shake.

“Okay, okay.  The haircut can  wait ‘til tomorrow  and the dentist  is off limits  forever. Now,
let’s go find my wife.”

Smitty  hunched  over,  slapped   his  hand  on  the  small  leather  fanny   pack  clipped  to  his
waist–carrying the tools of his trade–and lit out for the door like he was late for supper.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

287

At eight-thirty,  almost an hour and  ten minutes after Vinnie’s  visit, Bino slid the  old rotary
dial phone  over near the  ashtray. With his  stained index finger he  slowly dialed the  number and
waited. “Hello, Sis.  . . . No, just  a little . .  . tired’s all. . .  . I know, I know.  . . .
Look, I was wondering . . . if you’d do me . . . a little favor. This lady . . . came in and . . .
bought gas a  few minutes . .  . ago. A nice woman  . . . well dressed.  But she . .  . left without
paying. . . . No,  she’s not . . . the type. I  just wanted to . . . give her a  call. . . . I’m
sure she’ll come .  . . back and pay without . .  . the embarrassment . . . of some  officer . . .
knocking on her door. . . . I know you’re not.

. . . No, I . . . shouldn’t have asked. . . . Never mind. . . . I’ll just call the cops.”

Bino paused a moment,  then replied, “Are you sure?” He picked up  Vinnie’s scrap of paper and
read off Maggie’s plate number.  In a few seconds he was scribbling her  address on the same slip.
“Thanks, Sis . . . I owe you one. . . . Tell  the boys hi . . . from their uncle Bernalillo. . . .
Love you, too.”

Ten minutes later up on the 13th floor of Three Queens, Vinnie summoned Frankie from the main lobby,
where he’d been keeping an eye on the teller booth. The wise guy paced restlessly across the white
carpet,  waiting for  the elevator  to arrive.  As soon  as the  doors opened  and Frankie’s  face
appeared, Vinnie launched into his orders. “Go check this place out.” He crushed a slip of paper
containing Maggie’s  address in  the big ox’s  palm. “Now don’t  go off  doin’ somethin’
stupid. Just call me when you get there.”

“Okay, Vinnie. Anything else you want?”

“If I give  you more than one instruction  at a time you’ll screw  it up just like you  . . .”
Vinnie lit into the unfortunate  brute with a volley of insults, ending with, “.  . . just call me
after you check it out!”

“Sure thing, Vinnie.” Frankie  trudged back into the elevator and pressed  the button. The doors
had almost closed when  Vinnie crammed his foot between them. Stepping into  the elevator, he glared
up into  Frankie’s face. “Don’t screw  this up,” he sneered,  “or I ship you  back to your
ol’ man in a trunk. I want the girl unhurt and alive.”

“Okay, okay, I got it, Vinnie.”

The two-bit gangster stepped from the elevator and the doors closed.

“Mr. Domenico,” his phone beeped.

288 KEN MERRELL

A frustrated  look on  his face,  Vinnie marched  over to his  desk and  pressed the  intercom. “I
thought I told you not to bother me . . .”

“I’m sorry,  sir .  . .  but I  have a collect  call from  a man  named Lawrence  Ritter,” the
secretary stammered. “It’s the tenth time he’s called. Should I, uh, take a message?”

“What’s he want?”

“I don’t know, sir. I haven’t accepted the charges.”

Vinnie swore under his breath and slouched down into his white leather chair. “Put him through.”
Patience not  being one  of his virtues,  when the phone  rang Vinnie  snatched up the  receiver and
roared, “Yeah, wha’d’ya’ want?”

“Evenin’, mate. It was right fine a’ you to take me call, it was,” the voice rambled. “You
won’t regret it, for sure.”

“Who is this?” Vinnie shouted.

“Me mum,  who’s been bad off  an’ in the  hospital the last  few years, calls me  Lawrence; me
friends call me Ritter.”

“And I don’t have time for games and our conversation’s over.” He began to hang up.

“Mitch Wilson!” Ritter yelled  from the other end of the line. Vinnie  returned the phone to his
ear. “What?”

“Mitch  Wilson, a  right  cheeky devil.  Got a  friend  a’ his  hid  away, I  do. The  bloke’s
smellin’ right sod now. Poor twit had his fluids leakin’

out on the trunk floor. Too bad about the picnic and barbeque. Lost the meat now, didn’t we?”

Vinnie went on the attack.  “I don’t know what you’re tryin’ to pull here  . . .” Then his
threats suddenly altered course to telling Ritter exactly where he could shove the prank call.

“Ain’t no  prank, mate,” answered  Ritter. “See,  they got me  locked in the  Federal suite.
Can’t be too careful these  days. Now I need a good attorney and fifty-grand  in bail to bring the
meat to your flat, I do, where we can chat  about me lotto face to face.” Ritter hung up the phone
and smiled  as he  thought, I hope  the Jersey-accented  hard guyisn’t so  lame he  can’t figure
out  what  I been  tryin’  to  tell  him.  He’d placed  his  call  now,  and  knew it  had  been
recorded–probably even listened in on. But it didn’t matter. By the time the information made it
back to anyone who knew what he’d been talking about, it’d be too late.

In his 13th-floor suite, Vinnie’s mind sorted through the jumble of British

THE IDENTITY CHECK

289

slang. Slowly he placed the  phone into its cradle. Then he yanked it back up  to his ear. “Get my
attorney on the line!”

290 KEN MERRELL

THIRTY-FOUR

WITH NOT  A SINGLE STICK  of furniture in  the room,  Nurse plunked herself  down on the  floor. She
leaned her head back against  the wall, legs crossed like an old Indian chief,  her slip hiked up to
her garter  belt beneath her  new dress. With  both eyes patched, her  mood was less  than cheerful.
“You tol’ ‘em he could go,” she chided,

“if’n Smitty took a bath?”

Cap’n scratched his head. “I’m sorry. Didn’t think he was strong

‘nough to force him into a tub.”

“Don’t ever’body think like you does. Lightnin’s got a brain. Don’t

‘magine it took much a’ song an’ dance t’  get Smitty clean. Poor feller needs a hero, an’
a smart, good-lookin’ kid like Lightnin’ makes a  darn good one.” The old woman tugged the top
of the  slip and dress up  over her waist as  she shifted her tired  bones. She then reached  to her
thigh to administer  an energetic scratch. Finally having  had enough, she fumbled with  the clip on
the garter and grouched, “Sound, help me out-ta these blasted hose!”

The  three men  in the  room  had been  observing the  old  woman with  repugnant fascination,  half
embarrassed at witnessing the  immodest exhibition of bare thigh and half curious  as to what in the
world she was up to. Now two of them averted their eyes. Sound, though, dumbfounded, looked back and
forth between Cap’n and Greg, then went to help out.

“Now, just ‘cause you go crawling to her aid doesn’t mean you get promoted,” razzed Greg.

Nurse  pulled  her  dress  back  down  to  cover her  more  lady-like  underwear.  “You  all  been
watchin’?” she scolded  in disgust. “Shame on  you boys, ever’one a’ you.  Just ‘cause a
lady can’t see’s no reason for a bunch  a’ gentlemen t’ keep from turnin’ their backs when
she ain’t dressed proper.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

291

Greg turned his back; Cap’n followed suit. But  Sound, good soldier that he was, stayed put. “Do
you still want my help?” he asked.

“‘Course I do! You’re the only one ‘at don’t want none a’ what I got.”

Sound unclipped the garter straps and turned his  back while Nurse wrenched her hose down around her
ankles. “Might as well turn back ‘round. I’m covered up ‘gain. ‘Sides, if you ain’t seen
it before, ‘bout time you learned.”

Greg fought to hold back  a bellylaugh. Did she really think they were interested,  or was it all an
act? Slowly  all three men  turned to face  the cantankerous woman. She,  too, faced them,  a sullen
scowl  etched on  her face.  Then, lifting  the corners  of her  mouth into  a toothless,  measured,
outlandish deliberate smile, she  raised her hand, pointed her crooked finger  straight at Greg, and
cackled, “Gotcha’, Sunny boy!”

Then she pointed in turn at the other men. “An’ you too, Cap’n. An’

even you, Sound. Got ever’ last one a’ ya’. You was starin’ at my legs, wasn’t ya’?”

Greg  busted out  laughing, while  Cap’n  and Sound  were still  trying  to figure  out the  joke.
“That’s fer givin’ me such a hard  time ‘bout seein’ your backsides!” Nurse struggled to
speak between her  own giggles. “An’ ever’ one  a’ you just stood there with  yer lower jaws
hangin’ down, watchin’ a helpless ol’ blind woman expose herself to ya’!”

Sound and Cap’n finally  caught on to what she’d done and joined  in the hysterics. “You blind
old bat!” Greg managed to  spit out. “You see as good without your eyes as  we do with them, and
you were worried about something going wrong with the operation.”

“Don’t mean I wanna stay this way,” Nurse added. Greg nodded. “The doctor said he’ll check
you out tomorrow.”

Nurse fumbled over to Greg  and grabbed him by the arm. “And your sunny face  is the first thing I
wanna see.”

Greg reciprocated with a soft pat on her hand. “I’ll be there.”

Nurse quickly  withdrew. “Get down here,  you two,” she ordered,  groping her way over  to where
Sound and  Cap’n stood. At last  her words turned hushed  and tender. “Lost my  Belle more ‘an
fifty years ago. An’ now I got three  grown men–an’ two more ‘at ain’t here–all my sons.
. . .” She squeezed the rough hand of her warrior. “Cap’n,”

she said,  staring blindly into  his face, “don’t go  frettin’ none ‘bout  Lightin’. ‘At
boy’s one a’ th’ most genius boys I ever met. I trust your 292 KEN MERRELL

orders; you’re  a good leader, but  you let him  do his thing.  After he makes sure  his woman’s
safe, he’ll be  back. If’n I know how his  mind works, first thing he’ll probably  wanna do is
settle a  bit a’th’ score with  Mr. Vinnie. .  . . Sound.” She  gave his flaxen hand  a shake.
“If’n you  were born by  my loins, I  wouldn’t love ya’  no different.” The  men swallowed
hard. “All ‘at said an’

outta th’  way–an’ ‘fore  we go  an’ get  all mushy–let’s  get workin’  on Sunny’s
plan.”

Trekking to within a block of Maggie’s house, Mitch  peered down the dark lane. In the glow of the
street lamp the tan sedan,  parked in front with two men sitting inside, stuck out  like a hawk in a
henhouse. Mitch silently  crept up the sidewalk and  hunkered near the back of a  big black Cadillac
parked at  an angle  to the sedan,  some 50 feet  away. Smitty  followed. “Looks like  we’ve got
company,” Mitch whispered.  Smitty nodded. “But Vinnie  wouldn’t be sitting out  front. Who do
you think it is?”  Smitty shook his head, then leaned his shoulder  against the Cadillac to unwind
from the busy  day. Mitch balanced on his haunches,  deciding what to do next. Then  all of a sudden
Smitty  came to  life. Decidedly  upset,  he tapped  Mitch on  the arm  and  rested his  ear on  the
Cadillac’s side door.

Mitch tried to  read the mute’s face. “What?”  he asked. Smitty pressed a finger  to his lips,
took Mitch’s hand and pressed it against the warm  metal. Then he cupped both hands behind his own
ears and swayed  back and forth like  he was listening to  a rock-androll band. Mitch  could feel it
now, the steady vibration of music from inside. He raised his eyebrows and nodded.

Seeing through  the smoke-black windows would  be futile - and  probably would get them  caught; the
fashionable car was  meant to be private. Smitty  pressed his ear against the door  and again tapped
Mitch on the  arm, exhorting him to do the  same. From within, a deep voice  could be heard mingling
with the low, thumping  bass. “They’re just sittin’ there, Vinnie,”  the voice said. “They
haven’t moved in over an hour.” After a  moment’s pause, the voice came again. “Whatever you
say.”

Mitch cowered  even lower  than before and,  almost crawling  on his belly,  motioned for  Smitty to
follow. Thirty seconds–and thirty feet–later, they sat  in the shadows of a massive honey locust
tree near the street cor-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

293

ner. “That was Frankie,” Mitch gasped, “one of Vinnie’s thugs!”

Like always, Smitty nodded. Then he tapped on his leather pouch of tools and pointed back out at the
Cadillac.

“We don’t need to yet, but who knows, we might just want to give him a little surprise before we
leave. If those are cops down the street, Frankie might just come in handy.”

Some 15 minutes later Mitch and Smitty had crossed  the block to the next street, crawled over three
fences, fled from one yippie Scottish terrier, and navigated through the lilac hedge into Maggie’s
back yard.

Mitch crept to the kitchen window and peered through  a crack in the blinds. There was his beautiful
wife, sitting at the table,  eating supper. He longed to knock on the glass  and barge right in, but
still unsure of  the intent of the  visitors parked out front,  he skulked back to  where Smitty was
bent over the lock  on a small storage shed in  the corner of the yard, a  penlight held between his
lips.

“Great idea, Smitty. We can wait inside until they go to sleep.”

Proud of his contribution, Smitty deftly popped the lock and lifted it from its clasp. Both men then
slipped inside the  cozy wooden structure. By now  Ritter had become more than entangled  in his own
cozy  deal. Only  40 minutes  after his  call to  Vinnie, he  stood at  the checkout  desk beside  a
well-dressed attorney.  The man,  none too happy  to have been  summoned from  a late dinner  with a
beautiful brunette, was gathering the last of the documents Ritter had signed, shallow promises that
he would return for trial.

“Later, mate,”  muttered Ritter as  he signed for  his one and  only personal belonging:  an old
family  photo. He  stuffed it  in  his pocket  and followed  the lawyer  out  of the  building to  a
late-model, darkgreen Jaguar,  parked in a Visitor’s  stall, the balance of the  lot nearly empty.
The car flashed its lights as the attorney  approached. Ritter redirected his steps to the passenger
side and opened the door.

“Don’t sit on  my seat,” the lawyer  said coldly. He walked  back to the trunk  and raised the
lid.

“What, I got to ride in the bloody trunk?”

The attorney shot a look of disdain across the top of the car, then disappeared behind the open lid.
Ritter began to walk toward the rear of the 294 KEN MERRELL

automobile just  about the time the  attorney slammed the trunk  and shoved a blanket  in Ritter’s
face. “Cover the seat with this,” he snapped.

“No problem, mate. Wouldn’t want to get me nice clothes dirty, now, would we?”

Ritter fussed with the blanket as the attorney started  the car and revved the engine. Then, just as
he was sliding into the seat, the car lurched backwards. The tramp, his feet barely off the asphalt,
wrestled to close  the door, which rocked wildly  on its hinges. Then the attorney  again gunned the
car’s engine and the Jag pitched forward, snapping  the door back, nearly closing it on Ritter’s
arm.

“Crimony, bloke!” Ritter shouted. “You ‘bout smashed me bloomin’

hand, cast and all.”

The Jag and  its antisocial driver became  fixed on the road.  What with traffic noise  and the wind
rushing  past–both windows  being wide  open, presumably  to allow  for an  ample supply  of fresh
air–Ritter  figured there  wouldn’t be  much conversation,  so he  kept his  mouth shut  for the
duration of the ten-minute ride.

Skidding to a stop in  front of Three Queens, the attorney spit out  the window and snarled, “Take
the blanket and throw it in the garbage. The both of you smell like . . .”

“You kidding?”  interrupted the  derelict, drowning  out the  attorney’s words.  “This thing
might come in right handy.”

The surly  fellow stepped from the  car, again spit on  the sidewalk, and summoned  security. “See
that this piece of trash gets taken to Mr. Domenico’s office.”

Ritter got out, shut  the door, leaned on the roof  of the car with his good  hand and asked, “You
got a business card, mate?”

Turning on his heels, the lawyer stomped back to the Jag, got in, and slammed the door.

Ritter followed,  egging him  on. “Seriously,” he  remarked, bending down  to speak  through the
window, “a chap like me don’t ever know when good counsel might come in handy.”

Foot to  the throttle, the  sleek sports car  shot from under the  canopy and skidded  onto Bridger,
disappearing into the lights of the city. Ritter now turned to face the guard. “Me counsel, he is.
Just a bit high-strung, is all.”

“You wish,” the guard scoffed as he led Ritter to the elevator. Frisked from head to toe, Ritter
was put on an elevator and whisked

THE IDENTITY CHECK

295

up to the 13th floor.

Parking himself in  front of his presumed benefactor,  Vinnie looked the bedraggled man  up and down
and shook his head in disbelief. “You’re Ritter?”

“‘At’s right, mate.”

“And you have some information for sale?”

“To the highest bidder.”

“Bidder?” Vinnie leaned back in his chair.

The vagrant  went right to  work establishing his  worth. “See, the Feds  didn’t want to  pay me
up-front. They  figured to  keep me locked  up awhile,  then I  might be willin’  t’ give  up me
information for  nothin’. On the other  hand, that information  might hurt you–or a  young fella
named Mitch Wilson–real bad.”

“How do you know Mitch Wilson?”

“Helped  pluck him  right from  under your  nose, I  did. How’s  the guard–the  fella who  got
clobbered with the pipe?”

“You’re either very  brave or very stupid,” Vinnie  taunted. “If I told my men  the guy that
rung Carl’s bell was standin’ in my office, you’d vanish in a heartbeat.”

“Didn’t say I  done it meself, mate. But I  sure know who did. And now  they’re comin’ after
you.”

Vinnie’s eyes narrowed. “Who’re you talkin’ about?”

“Seems one a’ them fellas got hurt real bad  by the little credit card shop you had stashed down
in Eddie’s basement.  Now he knows who took  his money, I don’t think he’ll  be walkin’ away
‘til he  gets his pound a’  flesh. For all  you know, he’s already  got a man inside  your new
operation.”

The ruffian  got to  his feet  and strutted  over facing  Ritter. “You  better start  tellin’ me
somethin’ worth hearin’  or I’ll just let my  boys have a little chat with  you.” He punched
the call  button on the elevator.  Ritter’s cocksure bravado didn’t  wane. “Now if I  told you
what I knows, you wouldn’t have much use for me, now would you, mate?

‘Sides, you just  put up fifty-grand for  me bail. All I want’s  a shower, a hot  meal, some new
threads . . . an’  maybe a bit a’ respect.” He reached out  and smoothed the gangster’s silk
lapel between his thumb and fore-finger. Vinnie  slapped his hand away. Unfazed, Ritter concluded by
saying, “I might come in real handy when them fellas come snoopin’

‘round your place. An’ when someone treats me right, I’m ‘bout as 296 KEN MERRELL

loyal a’ fella as you’ll find.”

The elevator door opened and the security guard stepped  out. “Take Mr. Ritter down and find him a
room,” charged Vinnie, the flicker of a smile on his lips. “See that he gets somethin’ to wear
and then bring him back here. We’ll be havin’ a late meal together.”

Ritter grinned  broadly and stretched out  his good hand, a  gesture meant to seal  the deal. Vinnie
merely glanced down, turned,  and walked away. In the meantime, Mitch and  Smitty had been rummaging
through the contents  of the storage shed by the  flicker from a penlight Smitty kept  in his bag of
tools. Mitch stretched  a pair of garden gloves over  his hands and handed a pair  to Smitty. “You
know what  to do  then?”he asked,  depositing a  can of  starter fluid  in Smitty’s  bag. “You
can’t let him see you or he’ll start shooting.”

Smitty signaled his understanding, his face bathed in the glow.

“We’ll wait  until after I talk  to Stef. See  if you can find  a couple of potatoes,  then keep
watch.” Mitch  slid open the  shed door and  both men crept  to the back  porch. With a  few quick
flicks of  the wrist, Smitty  unlocked the knob  and extracted the  dead bolt. Mitch  entered first.
Turning to Smitty, he said, “Wait here and keep an eye out.”

Smitty bent over in the attitude of the Hunchback of Notre Dame, one eye wide open, the other nearly
shut. He’d  spent the last  few years on  the street.  To him a  minor residential breakin  was no
sweat. Indeed, the Chaplinesque humor proved to ease Mitch’s own discomfort. Mitch gave the little
tramp a  slap on the back  and whispered, “That’ll  do.” He inched  his way down the  hall. It
seemed logical that  the master bedroom would  be the door at the  far end on the  right, a distance
from the hall bathroom and the two other doors on  the left. Slowly he turned the knob to one of the
other rooms. His face drawn tight, he peered through the darkness.

The stillness of the  scene was interrupted by a faint series of  rhythmic sighs, sounds familiar to
Mitch’s ears.  Stephanie lay  sleeping near  the window, under  the soft  gleam of  the streetlamp
flowing through the blinds.

Tiptoeing into the room, he eased the door closed  and crouched near the head of the bed. He slipped
the glove from  his hand and stroked  Stephanie’s hair and neck.  I love her so  much, he thought,
spellbound by

THE IDENTITY CHECK

297

her exquisite  features, profiled  against the  pillow. “Stef,” he  whispered. She  rolled over,
mumbling incoherently, her face only inches from his. “Stef,”

Mitch repeated, combing  her hair behind her ear  with his fingers. At last her  eyelids parted. She
blinked, then smiled and said, “Mitch, I was just dreaming about you.” All at once her face took
on a blustery  expression. She pushed herself up on  her elbow, half sitting on the  bed, and hissed
loudly, “You lied to me!”

Mitch pressed a finger to his lips and glanced at the door. “Shh, you might wake Maggie.”

“You lied to me . . .” Her voice faltered and her face hardened at the thought.

“I know . . .  I’m sorry.” He dropped his head, rolled forward and  knelt on the floor, taking
her by the hand.

Stephanie jerked her fingers  away and came to a full sitting position,  folding her arms across her
chest. “You know?”

Tongue-tied, he looked again into her face. How he regretted the hurt he’d caused her.

“You know?” she repeated, her voice rising to a near yell.

“Shh, you’ll wake Maggie.” Once more he raised his finger and glanced over at the door.

This time  Stephanie lowered her voice.  “You know they’re  looking to arrest you  for attempted
murder? You  know that two Federal  agents are parked out  front? You know that  you’re wanted for
armed robbery? You know  I was nearly raped and beaten  by Al and Andy Kostecki? .  . .” Her words
trailed off.  She turned her  face from the  shadows, gazing through  the blinds. The  moon’s soft
reflection glistened  on the tears  running down her  cheeks. In the dim  light Mitch could  see her
swollen cheekbone  and the dark  bruise below her  eye. His heart throbbed  with pain. He  stood and
reached out to comfort his wife, to calm her, to hold her close. “Are you okay?” he croaked.

“No, I’m not okay. And I wasn’t raped,  if that’s what you’re asking.” She drew abruptly
away.  Mitch  knew her  too  well.  Now wasn’t  the  time  to go  into  detail.  She was  hurting,
understandably  so. “It  isn’t  what it  looks  like. You  have to  trust  me,” he  whispered.
“You’re not safe, either.”

Suddenly, from  the kitchen, a woman  let out a  scream and a ribbon  of light shot under  the door.
Mitch jumped up on the bed, tugged his glove 298 KEN MERRELL

over his hand, and slid open the window. “I haven’t got time to explain.” He kicked the screen
from the  window. “There’s a  terrible man waiting  in the street who  wants to hurt  you.” He
swung his hips through the window and dropped silently to the ground. Then he stuck his face back in
the opening.

“Don’t tell anyone I was here, not even Maggie.  Just say someone was in your room. I’ll be in
touch. I do love you.” With that, he was gone. The door to the bedroom burst open. Maggie, wrapped
in a robe, visibly shaken, stood in the hallway. She hurried in and flicked on the light.

“Are you alright? I heard voices and found a man in the kitchen.”

Stephanie  could hardly  move. She  just sat  there,  sobbing, unsure,  experiencing the  fear of  a
dove–should she take wing and risk getting snatched from the sky by the hawk circling overhead, or
take her chances with the cat on the prowl below?

From in back of  the next-door neighbor’s hedge, Mitch looked on as  the Federal agents pounded on
the door. And then he struck out, hurdling fences, racing across yards.

Just up  the street, Smitty  crawled on his  belly to the  back of Frankie’s  car and shot  a long
stream of  starter fluid up its  muffler. Taking a potato  he’d stolen from Maggie’s  pantry, he
crammed  it up  the  tailpipe with  the  sole of  his shoe.  He  lunged back  into  the shadows  and
disappeared into the night.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

299

THIRTY-FIVE

THE SMALL TABLE, BEDECKED with delicate linen, fine china and fancy silverware, rested on a splendid
woven rug. The spread of food resembled a Singapore smorgasbord, the best, most palatable dishes the
Three Queens  chef’s could offer.  Ritter, freshly  showered, and dressed  in a tailored  suit and
casual shirt, stood facing the table, awaiting his cue to enter the room.

“Come in, Mr. Ritter,”  Vinnie summoned pleasantly. The wicked smile he  wore, however, was more
that of a  head maitre’d of a  fine restaurant about to seat  the Queen of England  at a back-room
bar.

“My bet is, you ain’t had a good eat like this in a season or two.”

Ritter took in  a mighty whiff and fanned the  exquisite smells up in front of  his nose. “You’d
win ‘at bet, a sure thing,” he replied.

“Please, take a  seat.” Vinnie drew a chair  from the table. Ritter peered  into Vinnie’s grim
face. “Don’t mind if I do.” Then, keeping a  cautious eye on his foe, he plopped down onto the
decorative cushion.  A swift move and  a vigorous shake produced  an unfolded linen napkin  from the
table. Vinnie dropped the cloth in Ritter’s lap. “You might be needing that before we finish,”
he said. In  scrupulous fashion, he strolled  to the side of the  table and lifted a  silver dome. A
plump cut of  meat, roasted to perfection, steamed  under the lid. Vinnie drew a  long butcher knife
and a  square-shaped shaft from  a cutting block  and began to  polish the knife’s  edge. “Prime
rib?”

“Fine wit’ me.”

“Help yourself–all you can eat–while I cut the meat.”

Still cautious, Ritter began in earnest to fill  his china with the mouthwatering fare. He commented
delightedly at  each new item he  added to his  pile. Then, holding  up a small vile  of translucent
liquid that was sitting by his plate, he asked, “What’s this?”

300 KEN MERRELL

Vinnie grinned with pride. “A special recipe my ol’ man concocted a few years back.”

“What you do wit’ it, mate?” Ritter was beginning to feel a bit more at ease.

“You soak your meat in it.” Vinnie lifted a thick  cut of prime rib with the heavy knife and lay
it atop the mountain of food.

“Just  in time,  too.” Ritter  picked up  his fork,  about to  dig in,  when Vinnie  intervened.
Reaching across Ritter’s wrist with his own fork,  Vinnie lowered the other’s hand back onto the
table. “Not so fast,” he sneered. “I think the occasion calls for a few words.”

Ritter looked on, bewildered. “Like a blessing?”

“Somethin’ like that. Go on, you say it.”

“I–I guess so  . . .” stammered  the tramp. “Been a bit,  but I think I  could manage.” He
bowed his head.

Vinnie acted instantly, raising the heavy knife  and sinking it’s finelyhoned blade into the table
top. Ritter’s hand  shot to his stomach;  the frantic movement was punctuated  by a blood-curdling
scream and followed by a string of British vulgarities that would make a pub owner blush.

His face wearing a hideous smile, Vinnie ceremoniously lay the knife horizontally on the table cloth
and picked up the  quarter-inch tip of Ritter’s little finger. Hoisting it  like a trophy in front
of Ritter’s gaunt,  horror-struck eyes, he placed it  neatly on the stack of food.  All the while,
Ritter, ashen-faced, sat clutching his shortened pinky in his napkin.

“Now,  mate,” Vinnie  articulated, nonchalantly  sampling his  wine and  returning to  the chair
opposite the babbling Brit. “That ‘special sauce’ will kill the pain and stop the bleeding. We
don’t want to  be uncivilized now, do we?” He  stuck his pinky in the air  as if sipping English
tea, then said, “By the way, that was about the best prayer anybody ever prayed to me.”

Ritter dipped  his quivering  finger in the  clear fluid and  watched it  turn a brilliant  red. The
distinctively  freakish moment  was disrupted  by an  all-too-common sound:  a cell  phone’s ring.
Vinnie pulled his phone from his jacket. “What?” he shouted after checking the caller ID.

Frankie was on the line. “The Feds went in the house,” he mumbled.

“They was in a hurry.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

301

“So?”

“So then they come out again and they’re lookin’ all around. I think they made me.”

“Come back.  We have a better  way,” Vinnie replied. Replacing  the phone inside his  jacket, he
turned to Ritter and jeered, “You ever screw with me, I’ll cut off more than your pinky.”

Frankie, as  ordered, turned  over the  ignition. The Caddy’s  motor spun  freely and  coughed. He
looked up to  see one of the agents running  down the street toward him, his  weapon drawn. The thug
cranked the motor again.  This time the car hesitated, then rocked with  an explosion that shook the
new leaves  from the nearby trees  and split the exhaust  pipe from front to  rear. Safeguarding his
partner, the  second agent jumped in  his own vehicle  and sped for  the Cadillac, to block  the now
disabled  car’s path.  Within  minutes,  Frankie lay  spreadeagle  on  the asphalt,  shellshocked,
stripped of his weapon, cuffed like a hog-tied mule.

Halfway across town, Mitch and Smitty walked briskly in  the direction of the old part of The Strip.
Headed for  Three Queens,  their target  was a  certain shiny red  sports car,  a femme  fatale just
waiting to take them on a wild joyride.  “I’d like to’ve seen Frankie’s face when he cranked
the ignition,” Mitch  chuckled. He rubbed at  his eyes, trying to  keep his mind on  task and away
from the latest 24-hour stretch without a real night’s sleep. “It’d give me even more pleasure
to see the look in his  eyes when he figures out he messed with the wrong  guy. I’ll bet he put Al
up to bullying Stef, and Andy was the one stealing credit card applications out of my trash.”

Smitty hunched to the side. Then, nodding, he flashed a frightful stare.

“I’ve got  to hand it to  you, Smitty, you’ve  got a pretty  good sense of humor.”  He again
patted his friend’s  shoulder. “I wonder if  Nurse is spitting nails. I’ll  bet she’s madder
than a cornered hen by now, we’ve been gone so long.”

It turned out that Mitch  would have lost that bet, for back in the hotel,  Nurse and half her Alley
Team were asleep–or at least in some cases, trying to sleep. She had commandeered one old mattress
pad, while Sound lay on the other. Cap’n and  Greg were sprawled out across the living room floor,
wrapped in dirty blankets to insulate themselves 302 KEN MERRELL

against the  frigid air blowing in  through the vent. Greg  lay uncomfortably on his  side. He still
hadn’t become accustomed to  such conditions. The hard floor felt more like  a bed of nails. Right
then he’d give  his little finger for a nice,  soft mattress–or even a lumpy car  seat. His mind
began playing tricks  as he drifted in  and out of a restless  sleep. From time to  time Linda would
appear, laughing hysterically and offering her hand to help him up off the cold, hard ice. It was 15
years earlier, their second  date, to be exact. Greg had doubled with  his best friend and roommate,
Clark–and Linda just happened to be Clark’s younger sister. University of Denver, 1987, he was a
junior, she a sophomore. It was his first time at the ice rink.

A year earlier he and Clark had finally gone off to school together, that is, after horsing around a
year and  a half launching  their own  computer programming business.  When his geeky  little sister
wanted  to join  them at  college, Clark  was furious.  Then, after  she arrived,  he became  overly
protective, chasing off  most boys even before they could  ask for a date. Greg had  almost felt bad
for her.

“A mercy  date,” is what Clark  had called it  when he talked to  Greg about going to  the rink.
Later on he’d  learned it was a total set-up.  Greg had practically been part of  the family since
the sixth grade–same  schools, same church, same  interests–and the little sister,  who once was
his friend, gradually  became much more. What joy  there had been when they  married. Their children
would have the same grandparents; they’d love, honor and cherish one another and live happily ever
after. . . . Only one problem, Greg was being ousted from the family for infidelity.

Greg rolled  over onto his back.  The blissful dream had  slipped south, leading to  another sweaty,
agonizing nightmare. Barely conscious, he concentrated on  the beautiful face that had shone down on
him as  he lay on  the ice. “Come back,  come back .  . . Linda,  come back,” he mumbled  in his
sleep.

Nurse lifted her  head and listened. The blackness behind  the patches on her eyes left  her with an
eerie,  almost supernatural  feeling. Her  jaw tense,  her mind  grappled to  adjust to  the strange
surroundings. Cap’n snored from  near the kitchen door; Sound could be heard  stirring in the next
room. She lay her  head back down, concentrating on her own rhythmic  breathing to lull herself back
to sleep. Greg, in and out of an interminable, early twilight slumber, again

THE IDENTITY CHECK

303

found himself lying  on the ice, staring  up at the same  beautiful, innocent face of  the only girl
he’d ever loved. Her wild laughter had softened to a mild chuckle, and she still held her hand out
to help him off the ice. Greg reached up and took hold of her gloved fingers.

“You think it’s funny,” he snickered in his sleep.  With a swift tug of the arm, Linda too was
sprawled across the  ice, halfway on top  of him. He laughed  softly in his sleep.  Nurse, now fully
wakened, tossed sideways and mashed her new hairdo  between the mattress pad and dirty pillow. Then,
inserting a crooked finger in her ear, she hunkered down for a final try at sleep.

Greg writhed on the  carpeted floor, basking once again in those  strange, wonderful feelings he’d
felt all  those years before. The  girl, dressed in several  layers of warm winter  gear, pressed up
against his chest, laughing. She was almost like a sister to him, but now . . . lifting his head, he
pressed his lips against that divine smile.  Somewhat unexpectedly, Linda returned his affections in
full. The lingering  kiss was interrupted by someone  yelling. It was Clark who  scurried across the
ice and, skidding to a  masterful stop, sprayed the both of them with a  cold mist of frost. “Hey,
what ya’  doin’?” he teased, playing  dumb. “Here I’ve been  chasing all the boys  away to
keep my little sister pure for a special guy, and my best friend stabs me in the back!”

Greg laughed, but inside he wasn’t laughing at all. He was completely captivated by the warm, dark
brown eyes of his best  friend’s little sister. It was like he’d never  seen her eyes before, or
her lips, or her smile. For that matter, he’d never noticed the way her hair curled under to graze
the back of her neck, or how it feathered down on her forehead. It was like meeting a long-lost love
for the first time. The  spray of frost began to melt on her warm skin,  gliding down her nose. When
he reached  over to wipe away  the droplets, Linda pressed  her lips to his.  Clark’s chatter, the
drone of skaters  and music playing over  the PA was drowned out  by a rushing of  wind, most likely
blood pulsating through  his head past his eardrums.  Then Linda pulled away, flustered,  her face a
rosy blush.

“That does it,” Clark had scolded. “I’m going to tell your mothers.

. . .”

Mothers. Greg’s mind wandered.  The dream again had begun to steer south.  Both his own mother and
the mother of his bride were 304 KEN MERRELL

beyond upset when his transgressions were exposed.  He’d embarrassed his family, his children, his
best friend,  his boss,  and ostracized himself  from his religious  congregation–all in  one fell
swoop. The  local news media had  relished the heyday  of charges and countercharges.  Reporters had
especially jumped  on Greg’s  claims that he  was a  victim of credit  card fraud.  The creditors,
however, had lucked out when the tapes of him and Rayna surfaced. Now his bride was back living with
her mother  again. Greg fidgeted beneath  the blanket, again  rattling himself from his  dreams. The
floor now was harder than ever, the reality of his miserable existence all too vivid. He hoisted his
body to a  sitting position, propped his head up  against the wall, then wiped the  sweat from under
his chin.

“Dreams,” Nurse  whispered. “Sometimes  they seem like  an open door  straight to  your heart,
don’t they?”

“I beg your pardon?”

“You was carryin’ on in your sleep. . . .” Nurse struggled to stand.

“Here, boy, help me up. I gotta go pee ‘fore this here ol’ well springs a leak.”

Greg assisted the old woman to her feet and escorted her down the hallway.

“I’d  rather be  back  in my  shack,  you know?  Ain’t  hardly slep’  a  wink ‘cause  a’
Cap’n’s snorin’.  Can’t go back yet,  though, ‘til we fix  a few things. Gonna  take a lot
a’ hard  work if we want  t’ put Mr.  Vinnie outta business.” Nurse  rambled on as if  at some
point her words would converge into a coherent thought.

Greg gave a  nod. “I can’t ever  go back to the way  it was,” she said,  steering her drifting
thoughts back to center.  He maneuvered Nurse’s hand onto the doorknob.  “Here you are.” Then,
as  a creature  of habit,  he reached  inside the  room and  switched on  the light,  an act  he’d
performed for his children hundreds of times before.

“Don’t need the light, Sunny boy. I got my eyes patched, ‘member? Get my patches off tomorrow.
How ‘bout you?”

Greg snuffed out the single overhead bulb. “I can see just fine.”

Nurse dismissed his response with a grunt. “So can I. Just nice t’

have a bit  a’ help now and then  from someone ‘at can see  better ‘an me. . .  . Someone t’
hold my hand–let me know they’re here fer me.”

Greg leaned against the wall outside the bathroom  to ponder the old woman’s words. In truth, they
were right on the money.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

305

Mitch  and Smitty  hunkered in  the alley  near Nurse’s  shack. Smitty’s  small flashlight,  its
batteries nearly dead,  was pressed tightly between his  lips, its faint beam directed  at the brass
lock  on the  door  of the  big green  power  box feeding  high-voltage  life to  Three Queens.  The
lockpick’s hands wrestled with  the tools as he fought to ease the  tumblers into place. A bulging
plastic bag, filled  with soggy wet ash from  the colossal bonfire that had  reduced Carson’s Body
Shop to a pile of cinders, hung from Mitch’s hand. “It’s a tough one, huh?” Mitch asked. The
shaft of light bobbed up and down with the  answer. “I’ll go start on the railing.” He reached
down and lifted  a large, scorched wrench  from the ground. It,  too, had been culled  from the body
shop rubble.  Pacing some 100 feet  away to the alley  entrance between Eddie’s Gym  and Kitty’s
Escort Services, he cranked on one of the three  huge bolts that affixed the concrete railing to the
floor of  the parking lot.  The structure’s floor  stood a good four  feet above the  alley floor,
providing adequate cover for hiding. Occasionally he peered under the voids between the bolts to see
if the night watch had  started their rounds. The last thing he wanted to  have happen was some gung
ho guard shoving a gun in his face or plying a hard nightstick to the back of his legs. A silent tap
on his  shoulder momentarily made Mitch’s  heart skip a beat.  Turning, he came face  to face with
Smitty’s silly yet proud grin. The mute stood holding the brass lock between two fingers, swinging
it back and forth like the liberty bell. He  swayed to the silent chiming cadence playing inside his
head.

Mitch exhaled  a gigantic sigh of  relief. “I thought  I was had,”  he gasped, sucking in  a new
breath.

It took ten minutes  to remove the first rusty bolt. The second  stubbornly fought back, refusing to
budge even as both men threw their entire weight and muscle behind the wrench.

Even in the wee hours of morning, the  offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation were operating
in high gear. Doling  out the grease on the proverbial wheels of  justice were two separate sources.
One, a Federal  prisoner named Lawrence Ritter, who,  by the grace of the biggest  Jersey crime boss
wannabe, had been processed  and bailed free. The second, less likely source  was the crime boss’s
cousin, now locked in a Federal holding cell, who  went by the name of Frankie. While keeping an eye
on a home that had reported a prowler, he’d been nabbed by two of the Bureau’s best.

306 KEN MERRELL

Out on Maggie’s front porch, Barnes coached a  female agent. “Stay with them 24-seven; keep them
in sight. We’ll move them to a safe house  in the morning.” Certain the agent had understood his
instruc-tions, he marched down the concrete walk to his sedan, Horne trailing closely behind. “The
young one wasn’t telling us all the truth,” muttered Barnes. “I could see it in her eyes.”

Horne nodded. “What do you think she was hiding?”

“I don’t know.  The story just doesn’t pan out.  No forced entry, not a mark  on her, two guys
enter, one flees at first sign of the old woman, no prints, and, at best, a vague description of the
one in her room. Then,  to beat all, the son of the biggest crime boss  in Jersey gets busted for it
while the undercarriage of his car is ripped to shreds by a potato bomb. The whole thing smells like
the same kid  that took out Vinnie’s elevators and  disabled two of his guards without  so much as
firing a shot.”

“Mitch?” Horne opened the passenger door and both men ducked inside.

“I’ve been on the Vegas beat nine years  now,” said Barnes as he attached his seatbelt, “and
I’ve  never seen  any  criminal pull  those  kind of  stunts.  My hunch  is  he isn’t  finished.
Someone’s got the thumbscrews to him or something.”

“Why would Vinnie have a price on him?”

“The only thing I can guess is the kid  has something Vinnie wants, like maybe Mike’s body. What
do you say we go have a chat with Mr. Domenico?”

Barnes and Horne cruised north on The Strip, headed for Eddie’

Gym, while in the adjoining alley Mitch and Smitty  lay the last rusty bolt on the crumbling asphalt
of the  alley. “It’s going  to get hairy  now. You  sure you’re up  to it?” Mitch  asked his
faithful sidekick.  Smitty pressed his crooked  body between Mitch  and the parking structure  in an
‘I dare you to try and stop me’ posture. “Okay, okay, lets make some fireworks.”

Both men crept back  to the power box and strained  to raise the lid. With the  jumble of cables and
connectors exposed, they stood in  awe, not so much at the sight, but from  the feeling and sound of
the power surging through the massive wires and posts.  It was a hum, of sorts, coming from a living
entity whose heartbeat they were about to put into cardiac arrest.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

307

Mitch held his  plastic bag full of fine,  wet ash in one  hand, along with a set  of license plates
he’d stripped from a nearby car. In the other he gripped the big wrench from the body shop. “You
might as well climb up  on the parking lot,” he told Smitty, “and  whatever you do, don’t look
at the box. You’ll see spots into next week–could even blind you temporarily.”

Smitty readily  obeyed and stretched his  long legs to gain  a foothold on the  upper platform, then
swung them up and over the guardrail. Mitch took the  wrench in his palm and bounced it up and down,
like a  nervous pitcher  about to hurl  a baseball.  “You ready?” he  asked Smitty,  hefting the
wrench over and over to gauge its capacity for flight. Smitty nodded from the shadows and turned his
back to the box.  With acute accuracy, and using an underhanded motion,  Mitch tossed the wrench for
real, then turned his back to a cascade of  brilliant flashing lights spraying out at him like short
bursts from a thousand water balloons on a hot summer day.

The sound  of electrical current jumping  from one giant electrode  to the other crackled  and spat,
echoing up and  down the alley. Mitch glanced  to his right across the parking  structure toward the
casino. Its neon lights flickered briefly–then  continued to broadcast their glowing invitation to
‘come and give of your earnings.’

Mitch couldn’t believe his eyes. The wrench had made a solid connection between two electrodes, so
why hadn’t it shut the place down?

“Hey!” An angry voice came from across the parking lot. “What’re you doing over there?” It
was Tony, the red-faced guard who worked the late-night shift.

Meanwhile, out on  the street the two  FBI agents stepped out of  their car in front  of the casino.
“Hey, did you see that?” Horne asked as they approached the canopy of Three Queens.

Barnes, wary, answered, “Yeah. The lights flickered.”

“You see any of the other buildings do the same?”

“No, but  I wasn’t  sure I saw  it the  first time.”  Barnes, suddenly on  full alert,  made a
beeline for the valet, who slouched outside the door.

“Where’s your power supply?” he shouted.

The young man lifted his hands and shoulders, bewildered. “Got me.”

Back in  the shadows, Smitty lifted  his hands in  the air, Tony’s  gun trained on him.  The guard
slowly shuffled over to the  timid-looking man, yelling into his radio, “I got  a guy on level one
playing with explosives 308 KEN MERRELL

or something.”

Mitch was crouched  in the shadows, on hands and  knees, eyeing the power box, wondering  what to do
next. One end of the wrench appeared to be  tightly welded to a terminal. At the other end, however,
a small  halfcircle of  metal had been  burned away,  keeping the  tip of the  wrench poised  just a
fraction of an inch from the opposing terminal. Without contact, the current would remain unbroken.

“I asked you a question,” Tony thundered again.

Smitty just stood  there, caught in Tony’s flashlight  beam, his hands held high, his  back to the
power supply, a goofy look of ‘I didn’t do it, Mom’ plastered across his face.

Mitch crept over to Nurse’s shack and crawled under the carpet curtain. Groping about in the dark,
his hand fell  on the woman’s metal milk crate,  filled to the brim with dirty  clothes. He parted
the curtain and strolled into the alley. “Come on,” he called out to Smitty, coming to a stop in
front of the power box, the basket at his waist. “Let’s go get this laundry done.”

The guard stepped to the railing and redirected the flashlight and gun at Mitch’s face. “You!”

“Oh, Tony.  Long time  no see.  Had any  trouble with  the elevators  lately?” Mitch  flashed an
innocent smile.

The guard reached awkwardly for his radio.

Smitty, still with his hands in the air and his eyes on Tony, waited for his hero to work a miracle.

Mitch kept up his casual conversation. “Hold that thought,” he said to Tony. “Oh, I forgot the
bleach”–then he pitched the basket onto the open  powerbox and dove for cover. The basket landed
on the  wrench, nudging it  just enough so  that it bridged with  the opposing terminal.  A dazzling
flash erupted,  casting radiant  shadows across  the parking  garage. After  another burst  of white
light, the box burst  into flames, consuming the basket of clothing in  a single heated breath. Tony
blinked only once before Smitty, charging, swept low and took the guard’s feet out from under him.
As his bulky shoulders careened back towards the concrete, Tony let go of the flashlight. It bounced
once, then came to rest in Smitty’s grasp.

A monstrous rush of air  was expelled from the man’s lungs as he hit  the ground. Then, clawing at
his eyes, he cried, “I can’t see!”

Mitch lunged over the railing and kicked Tony’s gun across the parking

THE IDENTITY CHECK

309

lot.  With their  task completed,  the pair  bolted  up the  ramp leading  to the  second level  and
disappeared into the darkness.

310 KEN MERRELL

THIRTY-SIX

SWALLOWED UP  IN DARKNESS,  the penthouse’s white  carpet, with its  medley of  leather furniture,
expensive fixtures  and nude  statuettes, became  a colossal,  cryptic maze.  Vinnie groped  for the
remote control  to the  electric blinds, picked  it up, and  pointed it  at the windows.  The blinds
remained  in place,  indifferent  to both  his  repeated clicks  of the  button  and his  incendiary
mutterings. Even more  maddening was the fact that  his primary goal was being thwarted  by a larger
force. Thoroughly enraged, he flung the inoperable remote  at the blinds, the blinds which both shut
out his  view of the  more imposing  casinos–which he envied–and  preserved for him  a temporary
respite from the storm. These  same blinds now held in check his devouring  desires to own more than
could be had by legal means. His ambitions were now held captive to the inner darkness that cankered
his soul  and obscured his  vision. With  the floor’s dim  emergency light aglow,  Vinnie wandered
toward the  emergency stairwell  and vaulted  down the stairs.  Each landing  brought him  one floor
closer to freedom, to blessed light. By contrast, Mitch and Smitty calmly picked their way past rows
of vehicles, past the confusion and the  darkness to where Vinnie’s Ferrari was parked. Apparently
amid the  muddled chaos,  the man commissioned  to guard  the vehicle had  deserted his  post. Mitch
pulled the key from his pocket and turned to Smitty. “If this isn’t the right key, you’ll have
to work fast.”

Smitty readied himself  by unzipping his bag  and rummaging through his tools.  He seemed remarkably
calm, almost thriving on  the challenge. Mitch put his thumb on the  alarm’s disarm button. “You
ready?” Smitty gave the usual nod and handed his dim flashlight and a pair of needlenose pliers to
Mitch. “If he changed  the lock you remember what to do.” Smitty  grinned in anticipation. Mitch
pressed the button.  Nothing happened. Barnes, meanwhile,  after consulting with the  front desk and
then with the building’s maintenance crew, was led down the ramp towards the crippled

THE IDENTITY CHECK

311

power box. On the parking  lot’s lower level, Barnes and a second guard  came across Tony, who was
screaming bloody murder and mewling that he’d been  blinded by an explosion. Even as the man still
groveled about on the concrete, searching for his  gun, Barnes jerked the flashlight from the second
guard’s hand and  went off to inspect the  upperlevel parking. In the employee  parking section of
the second level, Mitch slid the key in the lock and cranked it sideways. Suddenly the car’s alarm
erupted in a  deafening scream. He yanked the key  free and made room for Smitty  to work his magic.
Already  poised for  action, the  little man  shoved his  picks into  the lock  and fussed  with the
tumblers. A little over halfway down Three Queens’ stairwell, Vinnie cleared the 5th floor. Though
hardly out  of breath,  he panted furiously,  his inner  fear now having  intensified into  a savage
anger, focused on  one punk kid who’d had the  nerve to tell him no. Smitty’s  little light, its
batteries nearly spent, flickered, then died. Smitty stopped to take from his pouch the larger light
he’d gotten off Tony and  handed it to Mitch. There was no reason not to  use it now, not with all
the horns and sirens blaring. “You can do it,” Mitch said as calmly as he could.

“You can do it.”

Vinnie careened past the third  floor. Only one more to go ‘til he  reached the parking level. One
more opportunity to snuff out the source of his problems.

Inside the dimly  lit casino, Horne and a  half-dozen security guards had managed  to get themselves
clear of the jittery crowds  and headed out the front door. Under the  canopy they went, towards the
parking booth.

Amid  this great,  raucous, swirling  whole, the  pieces finally  began to  converge as  one. Vinnie
clambored out  the stairwell door on  the second floor and  stormed past the milling  guests, Barnes
cleared the draw bar and bolted to the upper level, and Smitty, completing his artistry, flicked his
wrist and snapped  his tools from the  lock. Mitch yanked open the  door and reached in  to pull the
hood latch.  Smitty jumped behind the  wheel, dropping the plastic  bag filled with ash  and licence
plates behind the driver’s seat. From the glow  of the interior light Smitty rammed his tools into
the ignition while Mitch, flashlight in hand, threw open  the hood and jerked the cover off the fuse
panel.

“Alarm, alarm .  . . come on, where  are you?” Mitch muttered as the  alarm’s pulsating mantra
continued to assault his  ears. He scanned the schematic. “Accessories . .  .” he read. With the
pliers he tugged the fuse free. 312 KEN MERRELL

The screaming ceased. Smitty  gave a thumbs up and lunged across the  console into the passenger’s
seat. Mitch  slammed the hood and  jumped behind the  wheel. The bucket  seat that had once  felt so
comfortable and snug, now pinched at his hips.

By now Vinnie had exited  the casino on the level where his car was  parked. Barnes had ascended the
ramp on the same  level. Mitch turned the lock pick.  The motor spun free, as if  no spark, no life,
was within. He slammed the wheel with his fist. “We’re dead! The thing runs on a computer chip .
. .  molded inside  the ignition  key.” He  glared out the  side window.  Vinnie, a  bleak outline
against the one dim emergency light, was on a dead run toward the car, his gun swinging at his side.
Smitty’s unruffled demeanor started to wane. Frantically he pointed at Mitch’s fist. “What?”
Mitch yelled. Smitty cowered and dropped his head  in his lap, his white-knuckled hands covering his
ears. Mitch opened his hand, suddenly realizing  that maybe Smitty was right. Vinniemay have changed
the alarm and door locks, but that doesn’t  neces-sarily mean the right parts for the foreign auto
were in stock. Mitch yanked the pick set free and  jammed the key in the ignition, just as a torrent
of glass sprayed down the side of his face. A moment later he felt the cold barrel of Vinnie’s gun
collide against  his temple and  an even  colder voice echo  through the concrete  structure. “You
lose, Mitch. This time I’ll kill you.”

Mitch froze, his hand still gripping the key.  “And you cheated again. Probably did the same thing
with your old man, didn’t you?” He turned to look into the black barrel.

“An’ he had the same stupid look on his face as you do,” murmured Vinnie as he pressed forward
and cocked the hammer back.

“FBI! Drop your weapon  and step away from the car!” Barnes was  crouched several cars away, his
feet splayed apart, his hands locked into firing position on his Glock 23. Vinnie craned his neck to
weigh his  options. Seizing the moment,  Mitch cranked the ignition  and rammed the car  in reverse,
simultaneously twisting  the wheel  hard to  the side, sweeping  Vinnie off  his feet.  The gangster
squeezed off a  round, then another as  he sprawled across the  hood of the car.  Slamming the stick
shift in first gear, Mitch lurched forward, catapulting  Vinnie back over the car and depositing him
on the hard ground. The mobster bounced once, then skidded like a duck landing on an icy pond. Mitch
flipped the headlights on and held the pedal down, sending the

THE IDENTITY CHECK

313

Ferrari’s tires  smoking and spinning  madly on  the slick concrete.  Barnes aimed his  weapon and
tried to yell above the high-pitched squeals. Mitch only saw his lips move as the headlights flashed
past. The  Ferrari jumped  the curb and  sped for  the exit, sparks  flying from  its undercarriage.
Halfway down the ramp, a sea of blue  shirts–together with one FBI agent–parted like the red sea
to let  the crimson  chariot through.  Once the  car had  roared past,  the blue-shirts,  with their
jostling lights, raced  back down the ramp. Only Horne  continued on up to back up  his partner. The
car’s front  and back  bumpers ricocheted  off the  base of the  ramp, sending  a spray  of sparks
behind. Mitch now steered  the car for the exit at  the far end of the lot. Its  cross bar was down,
but it  wouldn’t stand in  the way of  his escape. Then, all  at once, the  Ferrari’s headlights
shown on a sole guard, who had stepped in its path. Facing the speeding car, he pointed his weapon.

Mitch muscled the car into second gear and gunned the engine, a warning to Tony to either move or be
run down. Tony stood his ground. Headlights in his eyes and unable to take decent aim, he pulled the
trigger. The hot piece of lead skimmed under the car and rebounded up the concrete ramp, sending the
formation of pursuing guards back on their heels.

Mitch yanked on the emergency  brake and, his eyes still trained on Tony–who  by now had turned to
run–cranked the  wheel hard to the  left. In a delicate  show of exactness and  precision, the car
skidded sideways and  butted the guard from  behind, sending him sprawling across  the ground. Mitch
glanced up the ramp.  An entourage of guards–now half the size as  before–was once again bearing
down on  the fleeing vehicle. Jerking  his head in the  direction of the cross  bar, Mitch’s heart
sank. A smaller  group of guards, a detachment  from the original pack, had circled  around and come
from the other side. Finally they’d netted their  prey. Mitch punched the car back into first gear
and inched his way into the parking stall.

Mashing the Ferrari’s front bumper against the  concrete barrier, he pressed the throttle with one
foot, the  clutch with the  other and pushed.  The barrier  began to teeter  under the force  of the
spinning tires. As  the barricade toppled to the  alley floor four feet below, Mitch  yanked back on
the shifter,  sending the  car skidding  backwards into the  empty parking  stall opposite.  Then he
shifted into first and yelled, “Hang on, Smitty!

314 KEN MERRELL

We’ll see how this baby flies!”

In an attempt to brace  himself for the impact, Smitty pressed his hands up  against the roof as the
car hurled forward. In one last, shrill cry, the car’s engine screamed through the jagged opening.
As the tires left the solid surface in a  spectacular display of sparks and flying gravel, Mitch hit
second gear in midair and the car vanished down the alley between Eddie’s Gym and Kitty’s Escort
Services.

“You  miss  her  somethin’ terrible,  don’t  ya’?”  Nurse  lay  on her  back,  facing  the
bedroom’s open  window. Street noise poured  into the apartment  past the torn screens  and shabby
drapes.

“I’d never believed  in the right girl coming along  until the first time we kissed.  At first I
thought I’d  be embarrassed  bringing my best  friend’s little  sister home with  a ring  on her
finger. But I  was so in love with  her after the first week,  I could hardly do my  school work. We
were married only two weeks later, during Christmas break.”  Greg took a deep breath and let out a
quiet sigh. “I don’t know how I got my mind so off track.”

“I’ll tell ya’ how. . . . It killed the cat,” Nurse mumbled.

“Pardon?”

“I seen it many a time. Some young feller with nothin’ t’ do just decides he wants t’ take a
peek inside ‘at  whorehouse a’ Mr. Vinnie’s. Next  thing ya’ know, they got him  by the seat
a’ the pants, so t’ speak. Just like  a cat–killed by curiosity.” Nurse paused and scratched
her backside with her fingers, gnarled as a tree root.

“See, when I was  a girl we used to have  a gangly time keepin the weasels  outta th’ hen house.
One a’ them li’l rascals could bite the head  off ever’ hen in the coop ‘fore my Pappy could
get the shotgun off the wall. So we’d set out these weasel traps. It was easy teachin’

the dogs t’  stay away; we used a  mousetrap on their nose. See,  all we had t’ do  was flip his
nose in it a time or two with somethin’  ‘at smelled like the bait, an’ he’d never get close
again. Darn cats,  though, they thought they was  smarter ‘an dogs. They’d reach  into that trap
with their paws an’ just get a little taste t’ lick off. Ever’day, from trap to trap, jus’ a
little taste.  Pretty soon they had  a terrible likin’ fer  ‘at nasty bait, an’  no matter how
many times we  flipped their noses they’d go  back fer ‘nother taste. Well, I  don’t need t’
tell ya’ much more, now, do I?”

“Nope. It’s pretty clear. I know what I did wrong, I just don’t know

THE IDENTITY CHECK

315

why. I already had everything I really wanted. . . .” Greg yawned.

“‘At’s been my point all  ‘long, Sunny. See, them cats did too. Had  all the food they could
eat in the barn. ‘Fact, Pappy made the bait from dried catfood. He’d stir it up with a heapin’
pile a’ chicken crap, drop  a few feathers in the mix, sometimes add a  little blood from one a’
them poor dead  hens, and drop it on the  trap. Didn’t matter a lick. Them  cats, with plenty a’
food right there in  the barn–stuff ‘at didn’t have no stinkin’ poop  in it, neither–had a
hankerin’ for Pappy’s mix.” Nurse rubbed at the patches still covering her eyes. “See, th’
problem started  when them cats’d  jump up on  the milkin’ table  in th’ barn.  ‘Course they
weren’t supposed  t’ be on  the table. ‘At’s  where Pappy’d make  up his weasel  mix an’
cleaned them  dead hens for eatin’.  Anyways, them cat’s liked  t’ get up where  they wasn’t
supposed t’ be an’ take a tiny taste a’ ‘at blood. Same thing gives life t’ one a’

God’s critters  when it’s pumpin’  through their veins, ‘ll  kill ‘nother critter  when it
ain’t, I guess.”

Greg cleared his throat. “You’ve told a good story, but I’m not a cat and I still want my wife
and family back.”

“Lemme finish,” muttered Nurse.  “See, when one a’ them cats got caught  in a trap, they’d
yowl and  cry ‘til Pappy’d pull  the shotgun off  the wall. Them  stupid cats’d be in  so much
pain, wouldn’t let him  close ‘nough t’ get ‘em out. Pappy tried  once–got so scratched up
he never cared t’ try again.”

“It sounds like the way I felt in the car that night. It was going to be a mercy killing, a way to
put me out of my pain.”

“‘At’s right,” Nurse continued, her voice softening. “‘Cept one ol’

cat named Tommy. . . . See, I decided I was goin’ t’ teach him never t’

taste ‘at blood.  I loved that rascal more  ‘an ever’ other cat in th’  barn put t’gether.
Always held him close, gave him extra milk. Even let  him sleep in my bed. Fer two whole years ‘at
Tommy cat kep’ from goin’ after ‘at weasel bait. Thing is, one night Tommy got tired a’

stayin’ in my room; wanted  t’ see what else was out there. I figured  Tommy knew ‘nough so he
wouldn’t have no trouble, so  now an’ again I’d let him go. Poor  ol’ Tommy musta’ taken a
taste when I  weren’t lookin’–course I didn’t  know he’d tasted, so  weren’t nothin’ I
could do

‘bout it–’cause ‘fore I knew it he was doin’ like all ‘em other cats, sneakin’

taste a’ that blood. An’ sure ‘nough, ol’ Tommy  got caught in one a’ Pappy’s traps. . .
. Pappy took the shotgun down off the wall an’  made me stay inside. Thought I was gonna die ‘at
night. I loved that ol’ cat more ‘an any 316 KEN MERRELL

critter on the face a’  God’s green earth. I wasn’t ‘bout t’ let  him die without a fight.
So I stormed ‘round the house, madder ‘an a bee in a bonnet, expectin’ t’ hear ‘at shotgun
blast.”

Greg yawned again. “Poor cat . . .”

“Hold  on, I  ain’t finished  yet.” The  old  woman gave  a little  whistle in  an attempt  to
recapture her listener’s  attention. “See, when Pappy  found Tommy, ‘at ol’  cat stopped his
screamin’ right  then an’ there and  looked up, sorry-like. Pappy  drew the shotgun up  t’ his
shoulder an’ took aim, but Tommy just kept’  lookin’ up with them big, green, gentle eyes a’
his, like he  was sayin’ he’d never  do it ‘gain. Pappy knew  how much ‘at cat  meant to me,
an’ went t’  find a gunny sack. Tommy  didn’t like it none, bein’ shoved  inside ‘at sack,
but he trusted  Pappy, knew he hadn’t a mind  t’ hurt him. Still, he fought  like a wildcat when
Pappy pulled off the trap, ‘cause it hurt so bad. An’ ‘fore ya’ knew it, Pappy brought Tommy
int’ th’  house. Took some doin’  t’ get ‘at paw  mended–poured pert near a  half bottle
a’

mecurochrome on it–but ol’ Tommy never even come close  t’ one a’ them traps again. I knew I
could trust  him from then  on. Had a  constant ‘minder, ya’  know, him limpin’  ‘round like
‘at an’ all. . . .”

Greg, now deep in thought,  let out another sigh. “I think maybe it’s time  I put a little trust
in someone, get a little help, too. Thank you, Nurse.”

Three a.m.,  and the  business district was  quiet and  still–except for the  two men  with gloved
hands, smearing black ash  over the glistening surface of a red Ferrari  parked behind the dumpsters
of National  Restoration. Mitch  whispered over  to his accomplice.  “I’ll drop  you off  at the
apartment, Smitty.  The drive  to Logandale will  be the  scariest leg of  the trip.  Every trooper,
sheriff, cop and Federal agent will be out looking for us.”

Smitty wagged his  head slowly, like a precocious  little brother being sent home to  mommy when the
big boys  wanted to play. “It’s  best, Smitty,” Mitch tried  to explain. “If I’m  not back
this morning by six, you’ll know I’ve been caught.  After all, this car is still a Ferrari, even
if it is black. Plus, you  need to let the rest of the team know what  we did tonight–and we did a
fine job of it, too. You’re about the best pick I’ve ever met.”

Smitty let slip a meager smile.

“I’m not  nearly as worried  about Stephanie as  before. Now that  the Feds know  someone walked
right past  them, they’ll  be on the  lookout. Vinnie will  be wrung  through the mill  because of
Frankie’s screwup.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

317

And, to make things worse for him, we stole his car right out from under his nose. He’ll be so mad
he won’t be able to think straight. You let the gang know the gun wasn’t in his car like he said
it’d be. We’ll have to come up with a better way to get it.”

Mitch circled the  car and tossed his gloves  into a dumpster. Smitty did  likewise. “Here’s the
key to the apartment. Sneak  in and don’t make a sound, I’ll be back  before they wake up.” He
held out the key. Once Smitty had taken it from his fingers, Mitch kept his hand extended, ready for
a handshake. “You did  real good, Smitty,” he said tenderly, “and I’m  sorry I yelled at you
back in the parking  lot. . . . If I’d had  a big brother, I’d want him to  be just like you.”
Smitty blinked  in rapid  succession as he  gripped Mitch’s  hand, then pulled  him forward  in an
embrace, his long arms nearly pinning Mitch’s to his side.

For a full 30 seconds Smitty clung to his new  best friend. Finally he drew back, wiped his big eyes
and motioned for Mitch to leave. Mitch waved him in the direction of the car. “Come on, I’ll run
you to the apartment. Now, hand me a wrench so I can change these plates.”

Smitty nodded his head  and, pulling a tiny adjustable wrench from his  pouch, again pointed for him
to leave. Mitch again motioned towards the car.  “It’s at least ten miles back.” Smitty nodded
that he understood and pointed one last time. “Okay, I’ll see you in a couple of hours,” Mitch
said, ending  the debate. And  before he was  finished speaking, Smitty had  turned on his  toes and
begun to jog away. Mitch  flung the old plates in the dumpster and brushed  the dust from his hands.
Taking  a small  rag he’d  found  in the  trunk, he  wiped the  shards  of broken  glass from  the
driver’s seat,  got in, drove the  few blocks down to  Craig, and steered the  car northbound onto
I-15.  Even  with  the car  throttled  at  70  mph,  Mitch  was passed  by  faster-moving  vehicles.
Unfortunately, with the accessory  fuse pulled, the radar detector and  jamming device were rendered
useless. Only ten minutes  into the drive, Mitch, nearly exhausted, felt  his eyelids getting heavy.
The warm night  air surged through the broken  driver’s window and whistled around  the car. Mitch
reached over and turned  on the radio. Staring straight ahead, feeling the  music as much as hearing
it, he struggled to concentrate on the road.  His tired mind drifted to Stephanie, her broken heart,
her feelings of mistrust. He’d hurt her. She had good reason to be angry.

A southbound car traveling at a high rate of speed passed unno-318 KEN MERRELL

ticed. Mitch flipped through the radio settings to help him stay awake, finally landing on a station
offering classic rock and playing The Beatles’

“Imagine”–one of his and Stephanie’s favorites. The music proved to perk him up, but also to
prick his conscience. How would he ever make things  right with her? His mind wandered in twists and
turns–until suddenly it  reverted to the here  and now by a  set of rapidly closing  lights in his
rearview mirror.  The dark  vehicle quickly made  up the gap,  the bar  lights across its  top still
unlit. Mitch remained calm and shifted to a  lower gear, increasing the rpms on the high-performance
engine, hoping the  cop would pass him on the  left. If worse came to worst,  he could easily outrun
the cop. But what lay ahead, that he feared.

Several minutes crawled  by. The trooper backed off.  Realizing that he’d been found  out and that
the cop  was biding  his time, waiting  for backup, Mitch  slammed his  foot to the  floorboard. The
Ferrari pulled away, fishtailing  up the highway, a cloud of blue tire  smoke trailing behind. Mitch
peered back over  his shoulder. The red  and blue lights had  broken through the wall  of smoke, yet
were receding in his mirror. The 220-mph limit boast Vinnie had made was accurate. The light traffic
was an expected early-morning blessing, and the only thing that kept the high-speed chase from being
a deadly game.

The normal hour  drive from Las Vegas  to his grandpa’s junkyard  was cut to 20  minutes. No other
patrol car came into view,  and if another cop had been alerted, he  was probably waiting farther on
down the  highway. Mitch  skidded into Grandpa’s  yard and  lunged from the  Ferrari. The  pack of
petulant dogs, rousted from their lazy-dog dreams, scuttled  from the garage. Mitch had no time even
to say hello.  He went straight to work,  jumping into the loader-type forklift and  cranking up its
engine. The bedlam out in the yard woke Grandpa from his sleep. He snatched his 9mm sidearm from the
dresser drawer  and pulled  up his  trousers. Marching  out onto the  front porch,  he saw  only the
tailend of the loader  disappear into the high-piled stacks of dismembered  autos. Grandpa urged his
boots over his stockinged  feet and lit out across the yard, through  the tangled labyrinth of cars.
Farther ahead,  the loader’s  engine stopped.  The old  man turned  his head  and listened  to the
sounds. Often they  played tricks on his  ears as they bounced from  one pile of rusty  autos to the
next. The dogs had gone quiet, and they were nowhere in sight.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

319

Then he heard it–a sound he knew all too well. As fast as his old legs would carry him, he hurried
to the old tin shed out back. Someone stepped from  the building and slid the big doors shut, half a
dozen dogs dancing at the intruder’s heels. “You done it, didn’t you boy?”

Mitch flinched. “Crap, Grandpa! You scared me half to death.”

“Me scare you?” Grandpa’s whisper was more a wheeze. “Boy, how do you think I felt, all this
wild ruckus yanking me from my bed?”

“Sorry, I haven’t got time  to explain. You’ll be seeing the cops any  minute now. I need your
truck keys.”

Grandpa crammed his hand deep into one of his coverall pockets and drew out his key ring. In another
pocket he fondled the handle  to his gun. “Best hurry up then, boy. She  ain’t got much gas, but
she ought t’ get  you back to town. Take her through the  reservation. Won’t be nobody lookin’
there.”

Mitch sprinted across  the yard, the dogs still on  his heels. The distant sound of  sirens rent the
stillness of the  night. The old Chevy truck’s  tires barely squealed when they  hit the pavement.
Mitch drove  another quarter of  a mile down  the highway, then turned  onto a road  leading through
Indian land. At that point the dogs pivoted like a pack of wolves and returned home. Grandpa hustled
back to the house, slowing as he came. Wincing in pain, he grabbed at his chest and shoulder.

“It ain’t a good time  t’ be comin’ home, dear God,” he murmurred as  he knelt in the dirt
and struggled for breath. “Just ain’t a good time.”

320 KEN MERRELL

THIRTY-SEVEN

OBLIVIOUS TO THE EARLY MORNING news reports

chronicling the hysteria surrounding the blackout at Three  Queens, the Alley Team began to rise and
take turns in  the single bathroom. Nurse  sat on the toilet lid  as Sound fussed with  her hair and
make-up. “You know I always wanted to be  a hair dresser,” he gibbered, “but my dad wouldn’t
hear of it. Sent me off to electronics school. The  old man worked as a truck driver, until his back
got so  bad he couldn’t  drive anymore. Still,  he and  mom scrimped and  saved to get  me through
technical college. And how did I repay them? Married a  woman and a year later got a divorce. But it
was all  for the  best. Finally admitted  to myself  something was different.  She actually  knew it
before I did. Bless her heart, she would’ve stayed with me, too.”

“Shh,” Nurse put a finger to her lips. “Cap’n just let someone in th’

front door.” Sure enough,  Smitty’s footsteps were heard coming down  the hall, with Cap’n’s
close behind. Without  knocking, the guileless fellow  shoved his smiling face  inside the partially
open  doorway,  ready to  report  the  night’s activities.  “Smitty,  that  you?” Nurse  said.
“Where’s Lightnin’?”

Smitty began to make frantic hand signals. “Hold  on, Smitty,” Cap’n ordered. “You got to go
a bit slower.  Can’t ya see Nurse can’t  see what your sayin?’” Smitty paused  and peered at
the bandages  on Nurse’s eyes.  Greg, too, peeked  in, chewing on  a sweet roll.  “Hey,” Nurse
groused, “it’s  feelin’ crowded in here.  Y’all get out  and we’ll foller ya’.  Me an’
Sound is  done anyways, ain’t  we Sound?.” The whole  gathering reconvened in  the comparatively
roomy kitchen,  where Smitty  resumed his narrative.  First he hooked  his forefingers  together and
pulled.

“Stretch?” Sound asked.

Smitty shook his head and put his thumb and forefinger an inch

THE IDENTITY CHECK

321

apart.

“Short?” Sound responded.

Smitty threw his arms together to form a cross.

“The opposite of short?”

Smitty nodded, hooked his fingers once more and tugged.

“Long?” Sound asked.

Smitty nodded, then put his hands together in the shape of a book.

“Book?” Cap’n asked.

Smitty shook his head and rubbed his thumb and forefinger together.

“Close to book?”

Smitty nodded.

“Story,” Sound said. “Long story.”

Smitty nodded enthusiastically  and pointed at Sound. And  so, in the manner of a  game of charades,
the Alley Team sat down to hear the modern-day tale  of the big bad wolf and the two mighty woodsmen
who saved the day. The sun was high in  the sky when Mitch crawled from the culvert. Grandpa’s old
truck just hadn’t had enough fuel in its tank  to get him across the desert, especially driving it
like–as Grandpa would  say–‘a bat out of hell,’ the  way Mitch did. The old man  knew how to
deal withthe highway patrol, he thought, brushing aside  the fleeting worry. A few of them were even
his friends. Besides, the car was so cleverly hidden they’d never find it.

He smiled to himself  at first, then began to laugh  out loud as he strode along  the old dirt road,
still some  25 miles from town.  “I hope I get  to see his face  when we swap cars,”  Mitch said
aloud. He booted a dusty stone, soccer-style, down the middle of the road. The rock rolled out about
20 feet and skidded to  a stop. “The idiot thinks he can get  away with cold-blooded murder.” He
stepped up  to the stone again  and gave it a  second whack with his  foot. “Blackmail, extortion,
going around ruining people’s lives.  . . .” The stone stalled in the  middle of the road again,
this time its momentum having carried it 40 feet  ahead. “Dying would be too good for him. The guy
needs to rot in a Federal jail till he’s old and  gray. . . . No money, no silk suits, no girls or
fine cars  or fancy food  or white carpet.  . . . And  no thugs like  Frankie to protect  his pretty
face.” One  more kick and the  rock was sent  plummeting off the road  and down a ravine.  322 KEN
MERRELL

Mitch turned at the sound of an old pickup  truck rattling up the road towards him. Coated with dust
and grit, it  clattered over the washboard road  until it pulled alongside. “Hey,  Mitch, what you
doin’ out here,” the man said. “You need a lift?”

“Hi, Joseph!” Joseph Brownbear  was one of grandpa’s long-time friends.  Joseph leaned over to
the open window. “I saw  your grandpa’s truck on the side of the road  back a piece. Wondered if
maybe those intruders had stolen it.”

“Intruders?”

Joseph peered into the young man’s eyes. “You don’t know?”

A quizzical stare met the old Indian’s gaze. “Know what?”

“Cops said he was taken to the hospital.  He was beat up or something–still packin’ his pistol
when the Highway Patrol happened by. Rumor has it, it  was a good thing they pulled in when they did
or he wouldn’t have made it. Guess he had a heart attack too. You didn’t know?”

“I must have left just before it happened. Where’d they take him?”

“First to Overton,  then somewhere in town.  If I knew I’d  drop you off. I’m  goin’ to town
myself.”

“The convention center will be fine. I’ll make a few calls and see if I can locate him.”

Running on three hours’ sleep,  two leftover bagels from the front seat of  the sedan, and a stale
cup of coffee, Barnes and Horne climbed the stairs to Maggie’s porch and rang the bell. Waiting on
the doorstep,  they discussed  the ongoing  events of  the day.  The Highway  Patrol had  combed the
wrecking yard, with probable  cause, searching for an intruder, they  knew didn’t exist “thought
to have  injured the  owner, Raymond Wilson.”  But that was  just a  front to search.  The Ferrari
hadn’t been  found, but  in order to  search legitimately  the Feds needed  a warrant.  The judge,
however, had  concluded that as  of yet there  wasn’t enough evidence, and  with the owner  in the
hospital and unable  to defend his property, the  warrant was denied. That morning  Frankie had been
set free on a misdemeanor charge of loitering,  while Vinnie wasn’t charged with any crime at all.
Instead, claiming  to be the  victim, he’d filed  a stolen vehicle  report. The health  and safety
department, meanwhile, had temporarily shut down Three Queens, citing a deplorable lack of emergency
lighting.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

323

The front door cracked and a woman eased her face up to the opening. Barnes nodded. “Agent Sutton.
. . .”

“Agent Barnes. Horne,” she answered in greeting.

“Is she up?”Barnes asked.

Sutton shook her shock of red hair and turned  down the corners of her mouth. “She didn’t get to
sleep until six  a.m., about the time  I came on shift.” She  swung open the door  and invited the
agents inside, Barnes quizzing  her about the events–or nonevents–of the  night. Then finally he
asked,

“You told them we’re moving them to a safe house yet?”

“They weren’t too happy about that,” admitted Sutton. Maggie, carrying a tray with two glasses
of orange juice  and a plate of muffins, made  her way into the living room,  bringing Barnes to his
feet. “Mrs. Champion,  how was your night?”  Pleasantries aside, he got right  down to business.
“I hope you understand, but we need to speak to Mrs. Wilson. . . .”

“The poor girl had a rough night. I’ll see if  she’s awake.” She set the tray on a low table
in the  center of  the room.  “Please, help  yourselves to a  muffin. From  what I’ve  seen, you
gentleman probably haven’t had much time for breakfast either.” After their hostess had left the
room, Agent Sutton turned to Horne. “Rough night?”

“Killer,” Horne replied as he peeled a plate from the tray and stuffed a muffin in his mouth.

“Anything on Hale?”

“Nothing,” Barnes  answered. “And Domenico  has our only  witness. The name’s  Ritter.” He
lifted a muffin and set it on a plate, then took a sip of juice.

“These things are great,” Horne mumbled, crumbs still clinging to the corners of his mouth.

“She says they’re from an old family recipe. I ate three myself.”

Sutton turned  back to Barnes. “Why  don’t you bring this  Ritter guy back in  on obstruction of
justice, withholding evidence, or whatever else the legal team can come up with?”

“Domenico would have him  back out in an hour. Besides, the arrogant  little twit’s already been
initiated.  Domenico’s old  man used  to cut  the little  finger off  some of  the members  of his
‘family’ as  a warning not  to cross him.  Ritter, the stupid clown,  had his finger  wrapped up
pretty tight last night. Said the knife slipped while he was carving a roast.”

324 KEN MERRELL

Agent Sutton crinkled her nose. “That’s disgusting!”

“He had it coming,” Horne said as he set his empty glass on the tray.

“What  about the  girl–she say  anything  new?” Barnes  asked.  Agent Sutton  shook her  head.
“After last night she’d had about all she could take, and now the old man, too.”

“Which old  man?” Stephanie, still in  a robe, her face  creased with sleep wrinkles  opposite a
nasty bruise  on her cheek, stood  at the hall  door, blinking her  swollen eyes and glaring  at the
agents. Barnes and Horne both stood; Sutton followed. “Mrs. Wilson,”

Barnes stuttered. “We’d like to have another talk with you if . . .”

“Which old man?” Stephanie insisted. “Is it Grandpa? Is he okay?”

Barnes shifted nervously on his feet. “Please sit down a minute.”

Maggie urged the young woman down into an arm chair. “Here, here,” she said in a motherly tone.

The three  agents retook  their seats,  leaning forward awkwardly.  “He’s at  University Medical
Center,” Barnes continued.

Stephanie gasped. “Is he hurt?”

“He had a heart attack last night. He’s resting comfortably now.”

“I need to see him.” Stephanie started to get up.

“We’ll  have Agent  Sutton take  you there,  but  please, we  need to  ask you  a few  questions
first.” Reluctantly, Stephanie  eased back in her  seat and closed her eyes.  Barnes, knowing time
was short, got right to the point. “Last night, it was Mitch here in the house, wasn’t it?”

Stephanie looked at Maggie, crouching at her side,  wondering whether or not to tell the truth. Then
she peered back over at Barnes.

“Yes.” Maggie, raised her eyebrows. “He came to tell me I wasn’t safe. He told me a terrible
man was looking for me. It was the man you arrested last night, wasn’t it?”

“We arrested  someone who’d  been watching the  house. We think  your husband  set him up  to be
caught.”

A faint smile settled  over the younger woman’s lips. “He  told me he did that once  to . . .”
She stopped in her tracks.

“Did what?” Barnes asked.

“Nothing.”

“We can’t help if you keep withholding information, Mrs. Wilson. What did he do?”

Maintaining a  straight face, Stephanie replied  simply, “I heard  an explosion. My guess  is, the
poor man’s muffler fell off.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

325

“A simple potato bomb,” Barnes muttered. “But I’ve never seen one work like that. It knocked
the guy silly.”

“Was he someone who could hurt me?”

“Yes.”

“Mitch wouldn’t have done anything illegal unless he was protecting me.”

Stephanie’s voice  faltered and she put  her hand on  Maggie’s. “It doesn’t matter  what you
think he did. I’m sure when the truth comes out you’ll find Mitch didn’t kill anyone.”

“What did he tell you, Mrs Wilson?”

“That’s it.”

“‘That’s it’? That’s all he said? ‘I love you . . . there’s a terrible man out front .
. . I didn’t  kill anyone’–that’s all? Look, we’ve got to find  him before he gets himself
killed. Do you know where he is?”

Stephanie shook her head. “He wouldn’t be hiding  unless he’s in trouble. And he wouldn’t be
doing your job if you were doing it!” She stood up. “Now I want to go see Grandpa.”

“Sit down!”  Barnes yelled.  He was  tired–exhausted, really–and  simply too  exasperated to
hammer  back through  all  the  formalities. Stephanie,  stunned,  did as  she  was  told. A  leaden
uneasiness settled over the room. The  highly-trained agent, the professional investigator, had just
lost his cool. After what seemed like several minutes had passed, Barnes fixed his steeliest gaze on
Stephanie and said calmly,

“Mrs. Wilson, this isn’t a game. . . . You knew Mike, didn’t you?”

“Yes.” Stephanie’s answer was wooden, emotionless.

“We think he’s dead. We have a witness that claims he knows where Mike’s body is.”

Stephanie lifted a hand to her mouth. “You think Mitch had something to do with Mike’s death?”

“Mrs. Wilson,” Barnes continued, ratcheting up his interrogation,

“we found  blood in your  driveway that matches  Mike’s blood type. We  found your car  inside a
building that burned to the ground–a building  belonging a very dangerous man–and, what’s left
of the organic  substance in the trunk  of the burnt car, our  lab is trying to  determine if it’s
blood residue. We have your ex-neighbor, Andy Kostecki, trying  to strike a deal with us in order to
get his tail  out of an attempted  rape charge. And we have  reason to believe that  Al Kostecki was
being paid  to watch you. Everything  points to a  very, very wicked man  who would like to  get his
hands on you and your husband. . . . Now I’ll ask 326 KEN MERRELL

you again: Where’s Mitch? ”

Jettisoning her defenses, Stephanie murmured, “I really don’t know. He didn’t say.”

“I’m sorry, Mrs.  Wilson. Your husband is in  serious trouble. I witnessed him  stealing the car
belonging to the man that  this all points to. Rumor has it he has a  contract out on Mitch. Can you
understand our urgency?”

“Yes, but I don’t know where he is,” Stephanie repeated, beginning to sob.

“We can help you both–if he’ll agree to come in and help us.”

“I don’t know where he is.” Her face was buried in her hands.

“Okay, okay.” Barnes lowered  his voice and drew closer. “But will you  tell us if he contacts
you?”

“Yes.”

“I’m sorry to have to put you through all this,” he said, reaching up and touching her arm.

Stephanie pulled away and lifted her head. “I’d like to get dressed and go see Grandpa now.”

Barnes stood. “We’re  finished.” He stepped towards  the door. “Thank you for  the juice and
muffins, Mrs Champion.”

Horne stood to follow. “Very good muffins.”

Pausing at the door, Barnes spun back around. “We’re the good guys, Mrs. Wilson. We don’t want
to see you  or your husband get hurt.”  And with that the  two male agents were out  the door. The
Alley Team gathered in a circle on the floor, legs crossed and arms folded, ready for war.

“‘At was  a lot t’  say, Smitty,” said  Nurse, once  the guessing game  had come to  an end.
“You an’  Lightnin’ had  one heck of  a night.  You think  he might a’  been lassoed  by the
law?”

Smitty  nodded as  Nurse added,  “There ain’t  much our  little bunch  can do  now ‘cept  keep
movin’ forward. We got to get ahold a’ that gun so’s we can keep ‘at boy outta prison.”

“First we’ve got to get you a set of teeth and your bandages off,”

Greg piped in. “Someone needs to do a little shopping, too.”

The old woman, a squeamish look on her face, quickly changed the subject. “Sound, your friend from
th’ T-bird heard from Ritter yet?”

“Not a word. Of course, I didn’t tell him where we’re staying. For

THE IDENTITY CHECK

327

all I know, he could have shown up sometime last night or even this morning

. . .”

“AWOL!” cried Cap’n. “The private took an injury in battle and he’s gone and bailed out on
us. Court marshal  him, try him for  treason. He’s up to  no good, sure as  some sneakin’ double
agent. Don’t take two days to get no broken hand fixed.”

The old woman raised  a calming hand. “Settle down, Cap’n. We don’t  know if’n he bailed, no
more ‘an we know if’n Lightnin’s been captured.”

“Excuse me,” Greg interrupted.  “We’ve got some serious plans to review. If  we hope to pull
it off, every detail will need to be perfect.  Every base has got to be covered.” Sound raised his
hand  like a  school  child asking  to  go to  the restroom.  “What  are we  going  to do  without
Lightning?”

“We’ll cross that bridge when  we come to it.” Greg said. Sound’s hand  rose high in the air
again. “Yes,” Greg mumbled, a bit irritated.

“I know someone that can get us fake IDs.”

Greg shook his head. “No, we’ve got to go through Vinnie. Everything needs to land squarely back
in his lap. It’s the only way we can take him down.”

Once more Sound waved his hand in Greg’s face.

“Sound, we’re not in school. You don’t need to raise your hand.”

“Oh, sorry. I just get carried away.” Sound bit nervously on his thumb nail.

“So what did you want to say?”

Head swaying side to side and shoulders hunched, Sound replied,

“I forgot.”

“Okay, then . . .”

“Oh, oh, I remember,” Sound cut in. He began  to raise his hand, then caught himself and dropped
it in his lap. “How are we going to find the new location of Mr. Vinnie’s shop?”

Greg groaned in frustration and sighed, “That’s why we’re reviewing everything again.”

“Sorry.” Sound pressed two fingers to his lips and sat back to listen. 328 KEN MERRELL

THIRTY-EIGHT

THE DUSTY  CHEVY SQUEAKED to  a stop and  Mitch stepped to the  curb. “Thanks, Joseph.  I wasn’t
looking forward to the walk.”

“It was good to  see you, Mitch. Ray never stops  talking about you when I see  him. When you find
him, you  tell him I’ll  feed his dogs  until he’s back  on his feet.  And good luck  with those
twins.” The old Indian pulled away.

Mitch entered the convention center and made his  way through the crowded Home Expo and Garden Show.
Finding a bank of phones at one end of the  hall, he located the number to the hospital in the phone
book and punched it in.

“Hello. Do you have a patient named Raymond Wilson? . . .”

After feeding the  slot a pocketful of change, the  call finally was put through to  the right room.
The ensuing conversation was short and to the point.

“You okay?” Mitch asked.

“Fine.”

“What can I do?”

“You take care of business. I’ll be outta here in a day or two.”

“Joseph said he’d feed the dogs.”

“Good. . . . Couple a’ government boys came by. Your package is still safe.”

A flicker of a smile  had crossed Mitch’s face before he was able to  extinguish it. “One of his
thugs got to Stef. She’s a little beat up, but seems okay.”

“Hell’s bells! He’s got no sense of a fair fight, does he?”

“None. But I think we’ve about brought him to his knees.”

“Good. You don’t go worryin’ none about me, ya’  hear? The old ticker still has a good fight
or two left in  it. Now get off the phone  and stop botherin’ me. I got some  nurse tellin’ me I
can’t even get outta

THE IDENTITY CHECK

329

bed t’ hit the john.”

“I love you.”

“You too, boy. Be careful.”

Mitch hung up the line and, flipping impatiently through the phone book, dialed a new number.

“Three Queens,” a pleasant voice answered.

“Mr. Domenico,” Mitch said.

“I’m sorry, Mr Domenico’s not available.”

“Is he in the building?”

“I don’t know, sir, this is a temporary answering service.”

“A temporary service? Why?”

“I think the hotel is having some trouble with their phones.”

Mitch smiled. Maybe the power outage caused more damage thanjust a few lights out. “Will you leave
Mr. Domenico a message?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Tell him . . .” Mitch hesitated.

“Sir?”

“Tell him  Mitch called.  I didn’t find  the package  he promised, but  I’ll deliver  his car,
washed and waxed, by the end of the week.”

“Is there a number where you can be reached?”

“ Tell Mr. Domenico I have his number, and it’s almost up.”

“Yes, sir.”

“Would you make sure to underline the word his?”

“Um . . . okay.”

Watching his  back, Mitch snaked back  through the crowds and  down the street toward  the Las Vegas
Hilton.  Across the  fountains and  lawns, past  the residential  roof tops,  his gaze  fell on  the
apartment building where his friends were harbored. Poor Smitty will be in a panic bynow, he thought
as he  jogged past  row upon row  of cars.  She was  like a shadow,  constantly following  two steps
behind. She wasn’t rude, intrusive, or overly talkative,  just always there. It was a cop’s job,
and Agent Sutton did it well. Keeping her vigil  in Maggie’s living room, she checked the doors on
a regular basis and  made radio contact nearly every hour. She shared  with Stephanie her experience
with being  a sentry. The danger  of them being attacked  had dropped considerably since  the potato
bomb and subsequent  arrest of Frankie Domenico  the night before–a fact that  made Stephanie feel
both bet-330 KEN MERRELL

ter and worse, all at the same time.

The women packed their suitcases. After visiting the hospital, their next stop would be a safe-house
for a few days.

The threesome squeezed into the elevator and ascended the five floors to the cardiac unit. From well
outside the room where  the crotchety old junkyard dog was being kenneled,  Stephanie could hear his
fearsome barks.  Upon entering the room,  they found his bed  empty. The sound of  Grandpa’s voice
could be heard snarling through the bathroom door,  which stood slightly ajar. “I’ve stood on my
own two feet  to urinate for more than 70  years,” it resonated. “So I don’t  need some pretty
face tellin’ me to sit down, then standin’ there watchin’ me while I do it.”

“Alright, Mr. Wilson. Sit down . . . that’s it. . . . I’ll be right outside the door. Just let
me know when you’re finished.”

“I’ll finish when I damn well please! Now get out–I can piss on my own.”

A nurse in her  mid-thirties stepped through the doorway and drew the  door partway closed. Noticing
the sheepish  gazes on  the faces  of the  visitors in  the room,  she shrugged  her shoulders  in a
chagrined apology and went about her work.

“I’ll be in the hall,” stammered Agent Sutton. Then she made an about face and marched out the
door to seek  refuge in a nearby waiting area.  Maggie shifted nervously on her feet,  as if she too
wanted to bolt.

“Do you think I should wait out there?” she asked in a docile whisper.

“Oh, no,” laughed Stephanie, only slightly mortified by the old man’s gruffness. “He’s all
bark and no bite. Come and sit down. I want you to meet him.”

Maggie took a seat as far away from the  bathroom as possible. After a minute had passed, the toilet
flushed. “Alright,” he barked curtly,

“come on in and help me with this ridiculous mess of gadgets.”

The RN  eased open  the door  and disappeared  through the  opening. Another  minute went  by before
Grandpa emerged, hunched over, toting a pole loaded down  with tubes and bags. The white hair at the
back of  his head was matted  down; elsewhere it  stood every which  way. He hobbled along,  old and
frail-looking, his white, bony legs poking out  like toothpicks from under the skimpy hospital robe.
At once  upon seeing Stephanie, the  old man stood  erect and his  face shone with joy.  “My land,
girl, it’s good t’ see ya’. I just felt the

THE IDENTITY CHECK

331

old ticker  fire up inside.” He  reached out to greet  her. The nurse followed  behind, a portable
monitor in  tow. “It sure  did,” she protested,  looking down at the  wavy lines. “And  if you
don’t settle down we’ll make her leave.”

The old  man brushed  aside the threat.  “Don’t pay  no attention to  Sarah, here.  She’s been
tryin’ to tell me what to do all morning.” Stephanie gave him a gentle hug. “Stars, girl, your
arms broken? Ya’ haven’t given me a pat like that since the second time I met ya’.”

“I don’t want to hurt you.” She meted out a second, more fervent embrace.

“Ain’t no hurt  in that, just pure love,”  he chided, one bushy arm  wrapped around Stephanie,
the other grasping onto the metal tube at his side.  “Just what I need t’ get out of this place,
some beauty t’ warm me up. Now, let me have a look at ya’.”

Stephanie took  a step  back, trying  to hide  her bruised  cheek. “Look  at you,”  she cajoled,
rotating her face to the side. “Ornery as that  pack of dogs you keep around. Now you stop barking
at the nurses. They’re just trying to help you.”

Grandpa reached over and gently drew the girl’s cheek back towards him. “One a’ them boys hurt
my girl,” he muttered under his breath. “He told me they did.”

“You’ve talked to . . .”

“Shh,” he stifled her words. Then he looked over  at Maggie, who sat meekly in the corner of the
room.

“Oh, Grandpa, this is my good friend Maggie  Champion. Don’t worry, she knows everything I know.
I’d trust her with my life.”

Maggie nodded  and waited for Grandpa  to finish. “He called  me an hour ago,”  he said quietly.
“He’s fine. Just got a  score to settle so the two of you can be  safe. Told me everything a few
nights ago when you came by. Didn’t want to worry  you with it, is all. He’s a smart boy, but he
did a dumb thing, and I can guarantee it’ll be the last secret he’ll ever keep from you. When he
gets a chance, he’ll clear the whole thing up.”

The nurse interrupted. “You’d better lay back down, Mr. Wilson.”

“See, there she goes again, bossin’ me around like Norma used t’

do. . . .”

His arms pinned to his sides by Smitty’s vicelike bear hug, Mitch 332 KEN MERRELL

assured his exuberant friend that everything was just fine.  “I just ran out of gas, is all. I’m
sorry you  had to  worry.” Smitty was  bent over with  his head  resting on Mitch’s  chest, both
gangly arms still wrapped around his hero.

“Where is  everyone?” Mitch continued,  slightly flustered by  all the attention.  Smitty rocked
back and slowly loosened  his grip. By interpreting his array of hand  signals, Mitch was made aware
that Sunny  had gone off  with Nurse to  get her  a new set  of teeth, then  to the eye  doctor, and
finally to  stop at the  hospital to see  how Eddie was feeling;  Cap’n was off  grocery shopping;
Ritter was still who knows where; and Sound was out rounding up a used television set and VCR. Nurse
and Greg had given explicit instructions that if Mitch  returned, he was supposed to take a crack at
Bino–see if he’d had enough of Mr. Vinnie and would lend them a hand. The entire guess-that-word
ordeal took nearly 20 minutes, and by then  Mitch was dog-tired. “I’ve got to get some shut-eye,
Smitty,” he said when the lopsided conversation ended. “Will you keep an eye out?”

Smitty, punster to the end, nodded and sent one eye bulging from its socket, scrunching up his cheek
in a smile.

Mitch laughed. “Smitty, you’re one of a kind. When  we get finished with all this I’m going to
have Grandpa  teach you how to  paint. You’re a good  guy to have around.”  Slapping the man’s
gangly shoulder, he added, “And you need to teach  me how to crack a lock.” With that, Mitch was
off for a quick shower, a shave, and a  lengthy snooze. Someone was calling his name. The puffy-eyed
old fighter lay in his hospital bed, blinking  away the too-bright overhead lights and struggling to
focus on the face that  went with the voice. Both were vaguely familiar, the  voice more so than the
face. The  room was empty  except for another  patient, eyes shut,  in the adjacent  bunk. “Eddie,
Eddie, you sleepin’?”

“Nurse?”

“It’s me, but for now I goes by Mrs. Lambert.”

“Nurse?” Eddie blinked again.

“Shh–you expectin’ th’ queen a’ England?”

“Nurse . . .  what in the–the blind stars happened  to you? You look like you won  the odds on a
three round bout.”

“Shh, I’m goin’ incognito,” she grinned. “Can’t no one know I was here.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

333

“Incognito? What in the name a’ Pete you doin’?”

“Someone’s got t’  put Mr. Vinnie outta  business. May as well  be me. He th’  one that hurt
ya’?”

Eddie rolled  his head  to the side  and squinted over  at his  dormant roommate. “I  ain’t told
nobody about nothin’ yet. Still can’t remember a thing.”

He winked one eye.

“I seen that.”

“What?”

“You winkin’, you ol’ codger.”

Eddie forced open  his eye and squinted  past the makeup, hairdo  and new dress. What’d  you do to
your eyes, old woman?”

“Had ‘em fixed. Feel like a yard a’ sand been dumped right out a’

‘em. An’ you look just like I ‘member, ‘cept now you’re older ‘an ever.”

Eddie stared up  at his old friend. “And  you look ten years  younger. What in the tar  you up to,
an’ where’d you get the money?”

“Compliments a’ Mr. Vinnie. Don’t ask–it’s a long story.”

“You on his train, too?”

“Eddie, you knows me better ‘an ‘at.”

“So how’d you get  ahold a’ his money?” Eddie let  out a soft moan as he  rolled up onto his
elbow and raised his head.

“Some sort  a’ bet  involvin’ a young  feller you  ain’t never met.  He’s part  a’ th’
family for a bit.” Nurse gave an annoyed little grunt. “Now shut your trap an’ listen a season
so’s I can tell ya’ what I got t’ say.”

Eddie lay his head back onto the pillow and kept blinking his eyes. He was glad to be back among the
living.

“This here  plan just might help  get your Clint off  Mr. Vinnie’s train, if’n  he didn’t do
nothin’ real dumb. Think he might be willin’ t’ help?”

Eddie’s reply came  out in a series of disjointed  sentences. “His mother asked him to  . . . to
come home and try to work things out with

. . . his old man.  By the look in his eye, I’d say yes, he’ll  help, even though his lips might
say no. My money says he’s been knocked a blow or two by Vinnie.” The old man lowered his voice.
“That’s how I  fell. Vinnie found my book–told Clint  they were going to help me  take a final
fall. Clint agreed, at first, but I been doin’ a lot of thinkin’. He might’ve been tryin’ to
keep me out of Vinnie’s way. But I still ain’t sure–just ain’t sure.”

“Well, we just got to make sure, now, don’t we?” declared Nurse. “Th’

334 KEN MERRELL

boy still might have some time comin’ from the law.”

Eddie shrugged. “Might do him some good. Who  knows, maybe his daddy’ll come here and defend his
son for a change.”

Nurse began  to explain the  plan’s every detail. Eddie  listened intently, grunting  and groaning
with each  labored movement. Finally  the nurse on  the new shift entered  and said, “How  are you
feeling tonight, Mr. Alders?”

“I’d be lots better if I had a roommate that didn’t snore. Can’t get a wink a’ sleep.”

Nurse picked up her handbag. “Time I’ll be goin’ now. You do like I tol’ ya’, hear?” She
pulled out a small photo and laid it on the bed, next to Eddie.

“Thank you for stopping by, Mrs. Lambert,” said Eddie in his most priggish voice. “It was nice
visiting with you  again.” Nurse smiled a toothless  sneer, hitched up her slip  and flounced from
the room. Mitch  awoke from his long nap to  find himself alongside three stooges, all  staring at a
used video  player/TV set  showing the  classic film  “My Fair  Lady.” Smitty  sat cross-legged,
elbows resting on his knees, his large chin in  his hands. Cap’n slouched up against the wall like
he was half asleep.  While Sound, exercising perfect posture, sat closest  to the flickering screen,
legs crossed and hands  resting on his thighs. All three sat mesmerized,  fascinated by the colorful
characters and amusing plot. “The rain in Spainfalls mainly on the plain . . .”

“You guys enjoying the show?”  Mitch asked. Not a one of them turned to look  his way. It was as
if none of them had ever seen a video in their lives. “Excuse me . . . I’m headed out.”

Sound  glanced up  for  only a  second,  then  riveted his  eyes  back on  the  screen. “Okay,  be
careful,” is all  he said. He raised  one hand in a  listless goodbye, his eyes  refusing to stray
again from the tube.  Mitch started off to catch the bus. Transportation  never seemed a problem for
the Alley Team. Nurse had instructed the new members on the fine art of free bus rides, the best way
to get around, seeing as how they lived so  close to the convention center. Mitch strode through the
bus-drop entrance and examined the route map. The closest stop to his destination would be the Econo
Lodge on Charleston. From there he’d catch a city  bus to Rancho, ride past the Husky, and exit at
Coran. If Bino’s  marine-cut, tattooed, boxer-dog-walking, cigar-smoking, busy-body  of a neighbor
wasn’t on trailer park patrol, Mitch would be

THE IDENTITY CHECK

335

sitting in  Bino’s easy chair  when he came  home from  work. The travel  plan went off  without a
hitch. As  the bus roared by  the rundown service station,  Mitch caught a glimpse  of Bino’s car,
parked in back next to  the fuel tanks. Mitch checked the time: 7:00  p.m. Thirteen minutes later he
was scaling Bino’s squeaky steps and forcing a  credit card behind the latch of the sloppy-fitting
door.

The hour wait seemed more  like a day. Mitch sat in the dark, stale room,  his mind wandering to and
fro, at  times coming to roost  on some of  the most brutal  memories, then fluttering on  to other,
equally powerful images of  such incredible love and kindness. The scenes  flashed mindlessly on the
insides  of his  eyelids: Brutality,  marriage, deceit,  sonograms, new  life, certain  death, hope,
despair, exhaustion, love.

He closed his  eyes, visualizing the early days  of his and Stephanie’s relationship.  At first it
was only a far-fetched  dream. The convicted-felon boy from the junkyard marrying  the daughter of a
wealthy, influential political figure. He’d never allow it–and they both knew it. So their dates
were kept casual, low-key.  She’d creep from the house–or sometimes outright  lie to her parents
about where she’d  be. But the lies  and the creeping around  only made things worse.  After a few
months her outraged parents had forbidden her to see him.

When Stephanie turned 18, the gloves had come off. With no more legal power over their daughter, her
parents  began to  take away  the material  benefits of  living in  a wealthy  home. The  effect had
actually catalyzed the  opposite reaction. Stephanie desperately needed love  and understanding, and
Mitch knew how to give both. Soon they’d  become more than close friends. Stephanie would tell him
everything. He happily  listened, all the while dreaming  of spending the rest of his  life with his
angelic bride-to-be. It had taken her a full three weeks to get up the nerve to tell her parents she
was engaged;  even then it was  by accident, when  one day she forgot  to take off the  diamond ring
Mitch had given her.

The pop-popping of not-to-distant gunfire jolted Mitch back to reality, and the smelly, oppressively
muggy surroundings of the confined trailer, which had baked all day in the hot desert sun. Mitch got
up to pace.  Each time he ambled  past the kitchen window the  trailer would rock. Each  step sent a
shiver down the  flimsy floorboards. He paused  by the water-spotted glass, peering  down the narrow
drive. Bino didn’t really pose  any threat. The poor man had been hiding  behind booze and 336 KEN
MERRELL

cigarettes and a  wild lifestyle so long,  perhaps he was more  afraid of living than  of dying. The
same  could be  said of  his other  deep-seated fears,  the fears  of commitment,  love, friendship.
Perhaps  Bino’s hollow  existence provided  a comfortable  shelter from  having to  deal with  the
reality of standing for something worthwhile.

Mitch sunk back into the lumpy easy chair and pondered the circumstances that had brought him to his
own such identity crisis. It had started with a wrong decision and just a little deception–nothing
a few hours with the police probably couldn’t have cleared up. But, no, he was too proud for that,
too pig-headed. Thought he  could solve his own problems. And before long  one stupid little mistake
was compounded  by another bigger one.  . . . Outside,  a car’s honking mingled  with the mindless
laughter of teens, amplifying  the black stillness and caged quality of  the trailer. Tires squealed
on warm  asphalt, followed by the  mechanical sound of hydraulics.  As the car outside  was launched
skyward, its lights cast  pale shadows across the wall opposite the windows,  reminding Mitch of the
reason he  was there.  He harkened back  to his  last visit  with Bino. Seeking  a simple  loan, his
petition had been  denied. Then just hours  later commenced the nightmare of  death and destruction.
Vinnie had spread it thick, a generous layer of suffocating grease along his slippery path. And now,
after a series of wrong decisions and bad luck mixed with a trace of good, he’d been hurled into a
deadly game of roulette.

The distinctive sound of Bino’s Audi pulling up the gravel drive made Mitch sit up. He crossed his
legs and slumped back in  the chair. The porch boards groaned out on  the landing; keys jangled. The
door sprang inward and Bino’s bent figure skulked through the opening. The Audi’s keys landed on
a stack of  stereo boxes nearest the door, then  the dim light flickered on. Bino  turned and groped
with his oxygen hose, detaching it from the portable bottle he carried around.

“Mike’s dead,” murmured Mitch from the shadows.

Bino wrenched around and gasped for a breath.  Fumbling to switch the hose to the larger compressor,
he sucked in a shallow breath of wind and said, “You’ve come . . . to the wrong place.”

“I don’t think so.”

“It’s over, Mitch.”

“What’s over?”

“It’s not just me . . . anymore. He’ll hurt . . . my daughter, too.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

337

“What does he have on you?” Mitch suddenly  began to feel sorry for the washed-up gambler, still
disoriented and panting for air. In the same  instant he hated him, hated the blatant indecision and
cowardice and corruption that he represented. Mitch pulled himself up out of the recliner and patted
its cushion. “Here,” he insisted.

Bino  straightway embraced  the comfort  it offered.  The single  chair was  again dragged  from the
kitchen.

“What’s he got over you?” Mitch repeated.

Bino took several rapid breaths  and measured his words. “Jimmy was a friend .  . . of mine,” he
began. “He got  . . . a nice job  from . . . the new  landlord that . . . bought  . . . Carson’s
Auto Body. . . .  Sort of ran the place. . . .  I had a few . . . gambling debts  I couldn’t . . .
seem to shake. That’s when . . . Jimmy introduced me . . . to the man.”

“Vinnie?”

Bino nodded. After another smattering of quick breaths, he continued.

“My debts  were gone .  . . but my  bondage . .  . had just  begun. I didn’t .  . . own  my life
anymore. . . . I worked for Vinnie . . . instead.” Bino paused.

“I figured.”

“Like I said . . . Jimmy and I were friends. . . .  I was ticked . . . that he sucked me in. . . .
We argued about it . . . a few times. He was . . . jammed up, just like . . . me, with his own bag .
. . of skeletons. So I made a call . . . to a friend in Utah.”

“Mike?”

“Yeah, Mike. . . . We went to . . . the academy together.”

“You were a cop?”

“Los Angeles. Took  the fast-track . . . to  a promotion and . .  . went back home to Vegas  . . .
with the rest of the . . . police family. One problem. . . . Fast-track promotions . . . came with .
. .  a price. You worked  the ghettos . .  . of L.A., you  . . . played  the gamble. Mine .  . . was
courage. My . .  . partner’s brains . . . got  sprayed across . . . my new blue  . . . uniform.”
Bino sputtered for  air. “A . . . few  months at a desk . .  . and the word . .  . from the shrink
came . . . that I was unstable.

. . . They put me . . . on the flat-foot .  . . parking violation patrol. . . . No gun, no honor . .
. and no disability for . . . my job-related . . . mental injuries. Nothing.”

“I had no idea.”

“Nobody does. .  . . I tried a few  . . . security jobs, some  odds . . . and ends;  married . . .
about twelve years ago . . . had a daughter. . . . Then 338 KEN MERRELL

came the . . . meltdown. . . . Couldn’t take the heat . . . of the responsible life.” The skinny
man faltered again, ambushed by a series of wheezes.  When they tapered off, he went on. “Mike did
make the . . . fast-track. Ended up in . . .  Provo, where his . . . family was from. Landed a sweet
. .

. FBI job . . .  doing cushy work–white-collar . . . stuff. Made his way .  . . up the ladder, and
then . .  . one day I called him  . . . out of  the blue. . . . His  old man had owned . .  . a body
shop. I gave . . . him enough info on . . . Vinnie that he . . . convinced his boss to . . . let him
come down here . . . and help the locals . . . take a crack at Vinnie. . . . Not a big priority. . .
. Stolen cars from  . . . one state to another. But  . . . a connection to the .  . . mob in Jersey,
that’s . . . what got the ball rolling.”

“Vinnie does have real connections?”

“Can’t get . . . any bigger. His uncle’s been trying . . . to clean up his own

. . . gangster image. Owns  . . . the whole block . . . that Three Queens  sits on . . . and another
40-. . . or  50 million dollars worth . . . of  property around . . . the city. The  Husky’s . . .
just a drop in the bucket.  . . . The real Mr. Domenico . . . has been  selling off . . . his assets
in Jersey . . . with the idea of creating . . . for himself a new life . . . in Vegas. . . . He sent
Vinnie here . . . to get the block ready . . . for a new hotel. . . . But Vinnie . . . thinks he can
cash in–wants . . . to skim a little off . . . the top first.”

“Why aren’t the Feds squeezing you like a wet sponge?”

“They’ve been by . . . to see me. Mike wouldn’t . . . divulge his source. . . . He promised to
keep me . . . out of it.”

“So what exactly does Vinnie have on you?”

“The bullet holes . . . in the Ferrari? They were . . . put there by me.

. . . The first time I’d shot . . . a gun in twenty years. . . . Vinnie had to hold . . . a gun to
my head to . . . get me to do it. . . . To him . . . it was just a game. . . .”

“Big deal–you’re afraid to shoot guns.”

“Problem is . . . the same gun killed . . . Jimmy. .  . . Has my prints on it . . . and the Feds .
. . have a perfect  match. . . . All they need now  . . . is the gun Vinnie keeps  . . . tucked away
for a . . . rainy day. Mike was . . . trying to  figure out . . . how to get me out . . . from under
it. He . . . always was a hot-shot. . . . I guess it’s what . . . got him . . . killed.”

“And it’s what put me in the same boat as you.”

“Damn, kid, I’m . . . sorry.”

“The gun I took from the  drunk that night. . . . I left it in the  Camaro. Your car thief took it
and gave it to Vinnie. He shot Mike point blank with that

THE IDENTITY CHECK

339

gun, then he knelt and  shot him again. . . .” Mitch, still sorting it  all out in his mind, stole
his own breath of air. “In order to implicate me, he dumped Mike’s body in the trunk of Stef’s
car.”

Bino’s hands shook as he wrested a pack of cigarettes from his pocket.

“I’m sure sorry,” he  said again. He slapped the pack against his  hand and peeled the wrapper
from its top. “Once Vinnie owns you . . . the only  way out . . . is a bullet. That’s what . . .
Jimmy wanted to do. . . . Just get out.”

Mitch grimaced. “Vinnie thinks the whole thing’s a game, doesn’t he?”

“He’s got his own . .  . problems to worry about. . . . His uncle shipped him  . . . out here to
keep him . . . out of trouble . . . back home.  . . . Vinnie’s like a son . . . to him. Ever since
his . . . old man got . . . whacked, Mr. Domenico’s . . . taken Vinnie . . . under his skirts. . .
. Frankie keeps Vinnie

. . . in line–in a funny . . . sort of way.” Bino paused to light up.

“Vinnie told me he killed his old man himself.”

Bino gave a shrug. “Wouldn’t surprise me. . . . His old man . . . was the mob’s . . . main hit
man.” Smoke spewed from Bino’s nose and mouth.

“See, if Vinnie . . . gets caught gambling again .  . . his uncle will . . . whack him. Vinnie’s
got . . . a habit as bad . . . as mine. . .  . If the old man . . . told him to, Frankie . . . would
whack . . . Vinnie in a heartbeat. . . . But the guy’s too dumb . . . to cover his tracks.”

Mitch sat in feverish thought, the wheels of gangster justice already in motion. “I’ve got a way
to take him down.”

“Ain’t been done . . . in forty years of . . . the family’s rule. . . . But my bet is . . . if
anyone can do it . . . you can. What can . . . I do to help?”

“Why should I trust you?”

Bino took a long drag  on his smoke. Letting it out in choppy puffs, he  said, “You can’t. . . .
With my daughter’s life . . . at stake now . .  . there’s no telling . . . what I’ll do. . . .
I can tell you . . . though . . . where I think . . . your car is.”

340 KEN MERRELL

THIRTY-NINE

IT WASN’T  QUITE AN EMPTY  SHELL, rather, it  was more an animal  carcass, from which  the callous
hunter had stripped  the best cuts of meat and  left the remains to the vultures–or  to the health
and building  departments, to be  exact. And now  the building was  slowly but surely  being plucked
clean to the bone by a loose band of dishonest  guards who weren’t sure if a job would still exist
once the  smoke cleared.  Two squirming  maggots wearing Three  Queens name  badges on  their shirts
shuffled on  the bone-white  carpet of  the 13th  floor, listening  to the  obscenities of  a crazed
tyrant–and ready  to take orders from  that very same  tyrant. It was  their hope to feast  on the
left-over scraps.

Three Queens had been sold for the value of  the land only. The bank saw the crumbling building more
as an encumbrance.  Just like its prior  owners had insulated themselves from  the responsibility of
the massive  repairs needed  to bring  it up  to code, Vinnie  had opted  to do  the same.  Over the
previous two years  Vinnie had neglected even  the most basic maintenance,  concentrating instead on
his own greedy agenda. Finally, threatened with a  million dollars’ worth of repair work, he chose
to shut  it down. Several of  the casino’s patrons were  already posturing to sue.  A broken ankle
here, a fractured wrist  there, some jewelry missing from the front  desk, three purses stolen–all
tort claims for  mental anguish and spoiled  vacations. A second round of  larger, hungrier vultures
had also gathered  to feed on the  hysteria of a possible  settlement that might be  gained before a
class-action suit swung into full gear.

Vinnie stormed back and forth across the carpet, hovering about like a waiting raven hoping to filch
his own a small morsel  before being ripped to shreds by the real  bird of prey–an impetuous uncle
yet unaware  of the  building’s present status.  The second  option, one in  which there  at least
existed the possibility of coming off victorious, was  to clash with the hunter without a gun, whose
name the gangster now took in vain, along with other

THE IDENTITY CHECK

341

choice expletives.

“One lousy kid, screwin’ up my life. . . . Walked  right in under our noses and stole my car . .
. leaves a message sayin’  my ‘number’s up’ . . . takes Frankie’s  car out with five cents
worth a’ potato,  then knocks me across the  parking lot on my .  . .” Clint took a  gulp of his
drink as he listened  to the tyrant’s vulgarities continue, “and I end  up with an FBI agent’s
gun pointed at me . . . and the kid’s still got twenty-grand a’ my cash.” He brandished a fist
in the faces of his two lackeys as a demonstration of his authority. “You find him,” he growled,
“or I’ll finish  the both of you with a  bullet between your eyes!” A potent  kick sent a nude
figurine crashing to the floor. He stared down one of his loyal employees. “And bring Gino and the
boys in from Jersey!”

Unnerved by the fixed  glare, Clint flicked the gelled hair from his  eyes and turned away. Frankie,
slouched at attention at Clint’s side, swiped his thumb across his nose and asked, “Don’t Bino
know where t’ find this Mitch guy?”

Vinnie’s lower lip quivered imperceptibly. “Maybe, maybe  not,” he finally said. “But if you
find his daughter, we’ll make sure he does. . . .” The wise guy glanced around. “And where’d
that runt of an Englishman go?”

The Feds were asking themselves the same question. Ritter had disappeared. The one, shaky connection
to the  whereabouts of  Mike’s body,  a homeless, pennyless  vagrant, had  managed to  get himself
bailed out, land a new  job, obtain a new wardrobe, and vanish–all in less  than 24 hours. And all
for the price of a measly pinky.

Barnes had  come into  the SAC’s  office to  deliver the news.  “The car’s  got to  be stashed
someplace in his grandpa’s wrecking yard. The old man’s anti-government all the way. Took on the
transportation department thirty years ago and won. He won’t be of any help.”

Field brushed off  the speculation. “To me that’s  a moot point,” he replied.  “I’m not as
concerned about the car as I am Mike’s body. Did you get the tap on Mrs. Champion’s phone?”

“We did, but we  were too late with the hospital  tap. Our nurse did report that  Mr. Wilson got a
call a  little after  noon. She  was sure it  was Mitch  by the way  the old  man talked.  Then when
Stephanie stopped  by to  visit, he confirmed  it. We found  Mr. Wilson’s  truck on the  old Pecos
highway 25 miles north of town. It was out of fuel, with Mitch’s prints all over it.”

“You think the boy killed Mike?” Field asked.

342 KEN MERRELL

“I doubt it. I’d  have to see his prints on  the weapon. Even then we might  have some burden of
guilt to prove.”

“What do you mean?”

“Mike was adamant the kid’s a good man. Put  it in his reports.” Barnes’s head gave a slight
shake. “I’m afraid I screwed this one up,  sir. Mike was right, we should’ve brought Mitch in.
The armed robbery  thing may have taken place  while Mitch was trying to prevent  a suicide. We’ve
located the driver’s wife. It took some doing because the old car had been sitting in the backyard
of a friend of a friend. The fellow’s name is Greg Hart.”

“The name sounds familiar.”

“You remember the two-hundred-thousand-dollar  credit card case a few months  back? Guy claimed he
was a victim? The story was in all the news.”

“I remember. The hotel came up with a tape of him with a hooker.”

Field slid his glasses up his nose.

“Greg Hart.”

“Poor jerk.”

Barnes held up his  pages of notes. “Lost everything. Job, house, wife,  home; his second mortgage
was sold on the courthouse  steps. We’ve talked to his father. Seems his  gun is missing. We found
Hart’s wallet in  the kid’s Camaro; no gun,  though. And one interesting fact:  the hooker works
for Vincent Domenico.”

“You find her?”

“Not yet.”

“You told me Mitch, in both cases, had left the guns behind?”

“He did,” confirmed Barnes. “But there’s more. His dad killed himself when the kid was seven
years old. Mitch is the one who found him. Ugly scene. Mother couldn’t take it and broke down. His
grandpa was awarded custody. Turns out the kid’s luck isn’t so good. As a high-school senior the
Vegas police arrested him on an armed felon charge. He cooperated and got a year. I’ve looked over
all the  statements–Mitch was innocent.  Drove the  get-away car and  didn’t even know  what was
happening until it was too  late. Far as I’m concerned, he shouldn’t have  been busted at all. A
Sterling scholar, captain of the basketball team . . . he could have had a full ride anyplace in the
country. The arrest squashed all that.”

Field gripped the corners of  his spectacles and drew them up on his  forehead. Then he massaged the
outside corners of his  eyes. A migraine’s aftermath, the remnants of which  often lingered on for
hours, wasn’t that

THE IDENTITY CHECK

343

much better than the actual thing. “But he can’t  be the perfectly innocent kid you think he is.
He stole a car the other night, we’ve got tapes of him setting off the fire alarm in Three Queens,
he kidnapped a guard, and so on and so forth. . . .”

“Word on the street is,” Barnes said, referring once more to his notes,

“Vinnie’s been running a credit card scam in  the basement of Eddie’s Gym. A bunch of homeless
people dug  Eddie out of  a wall in  the laundry chute a  few days ago.  The old boxer’s  as tight
lipped as Mr. Wilson.”

Horne stuck his head in the doorway, a smirk across his face. “We got him.”

“Who?” Barnes and Field exclaimed in unison.

“Mike’s contact. . . .” Horne paused. Finally they’d gotten a break.

“Bino Daniels. He was a rookie cop in L.A. Graduated from the same academy, same year, as Mike.”

“What are you waiting for?  Bring him in. He know’s a far sight  more than he’s telling us.”
Field brought his glasses back down onto the bridge of his nose and waved the agents out the door.

An  hour of  arguing hadn’t  changed the  old woman’s  mind. Nurse  was not  about to  go around
reciting The rain in  Spain falls mainly on theplain, no matter what  anyone said. She was perfectly
happy with  the way she  spoke and there  was nothing  wrong with her  southern accent. If  the team
didn’t  like it,  they  were just  “hog-tied  naked to  a hornet’s  nest  and drippin’  with
molasses”–end of discussion.

Sound had  taken the  time to  hook up  the television to  the antenna,  and now  he and  Smitty sat
watching the late  night news. Cap’n was unshakably  asleep in the corner, snoring  like a Bradley
tank. Milling about the apartment, Greg and Nurse  were trying to avoid speaking to each other after
their petty spat about  the need for speech lessons. In time, both  wandered into the little kitchen
to whip up a bite to eat.

“Hey, come  see this,” Sound  yelled. “Congressman MacArthur had  his identity stolen  and was
arrested today on drug charges.”

Greg vaulted from the  kitchen and concentrated on the screen. Nurse  waddled behind, still blinking
furiously  from the  irritation to  her eyes.  A news  reporter thrust  her microphone–among  many
others–in front of a man standing on the front walk of the county jail.

“This is an outrage!” the man scoffed, his voice resonating over the TV.

“I was treated like a common criminal.” The man was well dressed, though 344 KEN MERRELL

disheveled. His  jacket hung over one  arm, his presumed  wife hung on  the other, her face  a bleak
mask. A distinguished attorney lurked in the  shadows, practically hanging onto his client’s shirt
tails.

“Congressman  MacArthur,” one  of  the reporters  shouted,  “are you  saying  the charges  are
false?”

“I’m not only stating unequivocally that the charges  are false but that the arrest should never
have happened.  My office  will get to  the bottom  of this. And  when it does,  heads are  going to
roll.”

The news anchor appeared  on the screen. “That was the scene earlier  today at the county jail,”
he said, a look of concern creasing his face. “We have since learned that the drug charges stemmed
from a Florida warrant for this man, Roy  Higgins, a resident of Porterville, California.” A photo
flashed on the screen.  “Allegedly, Higgins had been posing as  Congressman Dalton MacArthur. From
the information we  have received, he has ties to  Las Vegas and has left a  trail of illegal credit
card charges and speeding  tickets in the congressman’s name from California to  Florida. . . . We
now take you live to Congressman MacArthur’s home.”

“Thank you, Phil,” said the dark-haired,  on-the-scene reporter. “I’m standing here in front
of the home of congressional freshman Dalton MacArthur. His attorney spoke with us a few minutes ago
and said the Congressman is not ready to make  a statement at this time. However, he assures us that
his client will be completely and quickly cleared  of any wrongdoing. This was not so simply put.”
She peered  down to read from  her notes. “As he  termed it, the charges  are–and I quote–‘a
massive mistake,  indeed, a bureaucratic  crime that  carries with it  a ripple effect  of financial
tentacles reaching into the very corners of the personal lives of innocent people’–unquote. This
is Dee Dee Dickinson reporting live from  Congressman MacArthur’s residence, Los Prados Estates. .
. . Back to you, Phil.”

Greg gestured excitedly. “See, the same thing happened  to me, except the guy never got caught!”
He glanced once more at the television set. Seeing that the newscast had moved on to its next story,
he continued, “The  sucker didn’t even see it  coming. He probably has credit  cards he didn’t
even know he had.”

Smitty sat deep in thought, his chin resting on his partially closed fist.

“What you thinkin’, Smitty?” Nurse asked.

The mute sat up and  blinked hard, staring at the wall. Then he opened his  eyes wide, as if a light
had come on, and pointed back and forth between his head and his eyes.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

345

“You seen  somethin’?” Nurse asked. Smitty  nodded. By hook and  by crook, soon the  woman had
deciphered that Smitty had seen the imposter congressman, Roy Higgins, going in and out of Eddie’s
gym a few times. In time the excitement wore off and the day’s flurry of events took their toll on
the bleary-eyed  team. As late-spring’s dusk  faded to night, the  Alley Team lolled about  on the
floor like a teenage slumber party, the television still blaring.

Mitch arrived to the late-night banter of Jay Leno. He flipped off the set and scrounged through the
fridge for  something to  eat. He, too,  would shortly be  sleeping on  the floor beside  his fellow
nomads, the days and nights overlapping from one  unmarked point on the calendar onto the next. Like
the paltry peanut spread he’d caked on his slice  of bread, the days and nights wore on, tasteless
and seemingly indeterminable. It  took Bino almost two minutes to answer the  door. He’d dozed off
in his easy  chair, the television still flashing  its sultry scenes, long since  disregarded by the
gambler. And tonight he didn’t feel so good,  having just drawn a sour hand from Frankie–several
sour hands, to be exact, mostly slaps across the face and a knee to the groin. “Not enough to kill
him,” Vinnie had said. “Just enough to let you know I mean business.”

Barnes and Horne began  their interrogation, one that would last well into  the night. Bino knew the
drill: they’d  ask a question,  he’d deny  knowing anything, or  refuse to answer.  They’d ask
again . . . and so it would go. Yes,  Bino’s body hurt, but his soul suffered an agony much worse.
Just a  glimpse of his  young daughter was  all they’d  given him. She  was sobbing her  eyes out,
clamped in the filthy arms of a thug he’d never laid eyes on before. The car was driven by another
of Vinnie’s old buddies from back home, probably  flown in just for the occasion. The thug holding
her had  lifted her  head just enough  to be  sure Bino would  see the terrified  look on  her face.
Snatched from her bed in the dead of night, her mother didn’t even know she was missing.

He’d convinced  himself that even Vinnie  wouldn’t stoop so  low as to  use the girl as  a pawn.
Still,  taking precautions,  he’d  tried to  persuade  his ex-wife  to let  him  take Angelina  to
Disneyland for a week. It being the last month of the school year–and considering his request most
strange–she wouldn’t hear of it.

346 KEN MERRELL

When the first  streaks of dawn painted the Vegas  sky a pale blue, a new  set of interrogators were
parked in Bino’s face, asking questions–the same questions he’d heard a hundred times over. He
never  bothered to  lawyerup.  Where he  was  going  in the  next  few days,  he  wouldn’t need  a
lawyer–and neither  would Vinnie. A  single, chilling, mind-numbing  fact kept swimming  around in
Bino’s mind: His little Angelina wouldn’t be going home to her mother when the boys went back to
Jersey. It wasn’t Vinnie’s style.  Someone would find her on the side of  the road, another in a
long line of  Vinnie’s victims. The gun that  killed Jimmy would also mysteriously  show up, along
with an anonymous note as to whom the prints  belonged to. It was in picturing his daughter’s face
that Bino ultimately  found the courage to act. He  would give anything to bring her  home, safe and
sound. Maybe by saving her he could vindicate himself and bring a flicker of purpose to the years of
disgrace and humiliation he’d suffered. And perhaps a paragraph or two of his own would help close
the wound he’d inflicted in the heart of his ex-wife. Fed by the angry voices of frustrated agents
demanding  answers to  their inane  questions, Bino’s  sense of  duty built  to a  crescendo. “I
don’t know!”

he cried out, rising  to his feet. “So you either .  . . book me . . .  or turn me loose–now!”
His chest  heaved; every other  part of his  body shook violently. For  nearly 12 hours  he’d been
deprived of one  of his most cherished vices. Now  he’d almost kill for a cigarette.  By nine a.m.
Wednesday, Nurse  was already showered  and dressed. Lifting  a long wooden  spoon to her  lips, she
sampled from an  old pot of boiling grits, added  some salt and a pinch of  pepper, and took another
taste. Another second hand pan, full of bacon  sizzled on the stove’s other burner. Too enthralled
with the grits, she  didn’t notice the dark swell rising from the  pan, until every smoke detector
in the apartment was crowing its own rise-and-shine  symphony. Not exactly the most subtle way for a
bunch of criminals to  start their morning. Of course, Cap’n’s response  had a bad-mouthed tinge
to it. To say the least, he didn’t hold back  on his opinions, none of which touted the marvels of
the life-saving  device. Between mumbled curses,  one could hear the  words “blasted communists”
and “causin’ heart attacks” and “air raids.”

Pretty soon everything calmed down and the team got on with the

THE IDENTITY CHECK

347

day’s relatively light list of tasks. In an  effort to fine-tune their plan, Eddie was assigned to
stage a  simple experiment with Clint  to see if blood  really was thicker than  water–or, in this
case, thicker than  money. Sound had agreed  to saunter on down to  the T-Bird to see  if Ritter had
shown his  face, then return and  assemble the team’s communication  system–a rather MickeyMouse
system purchased from Radio Shack for $49.95. And the magic moment everyone was waiting for would be
a call from  the dental lab. With a 24-hour  turn-around time, the new set of  dentures would be the
finishing  touch to  the team’s  masterpiece,  the new  ‘queen  of the  street,’ Mrs.  Rebecca
Lambert.

After breakfast Smitty sat down cross-legged on the kitchen  floor to show Mitch how to pick a lock.
First he dismantled several simple locks he kept in his tool pouch and demonstrated how they worked.
Cap’n passively looked  on over Mitch’s shoulder.  Mitch caught on quickly and,  wielding a pick
and a spring, he guided  into place the tumbler pins of the most basic lock.  But it was harder than
Smitty made it out to be. Nevertheless, a frustrating half-hour later, Mitch had successfully opened
his first lock. Delighted by  his teaching ability, Smitty tossed his hands in  the air as if he’d
just won the Boston Marathon.

Having beaten  the lock–and  against the  better judgment of  both Nurse  and Greg–Mitch  took a
relaxed stroll over to the convention center to call the hospital and check on Grandpa. The news was
all good. The old  man was doing well, and swore  he’d be home in time for  supper. The attack had
been mild,  as heart  attacks go. The  only drawbacks  were that  he’d have to  put away  the pipe
and–heaven  forbid!–stop eating  fried foods.  Doctor’s orders  also prescribed  a few  pills,
bed-rest for a week, and  that he cut out chasing ghosts in the junkyard.  Within five or six weeks,
he’d be back in  the pink. “Darn rules . .  .” groused the old man. “They  take all the fizz
outta life!”

Mitch said  his good-byes and  hung up the  phone–but not before the  Feds had narrowed  down from
which floor and which part of the building  the call had originated. Aching to speak with Stephanie,
Mitch once  more picked  up the phone–then  abruptly hung it  back up.  Having been warned  by the
skittish Alley  Team that the  phones might be  tapped, he maneuvered through  the crowds to  a more
remote bank of pay phones and punched in the  number. The only other occupant of the small, six-unit
booth hung up his own phone and went off down the hall.

348 KEN MERRELL

While  waiting for  the  call  to connect,  Mitch  stared down  at  the  carpeted, two-foot  square,
metal-edged panel  under his feet. Subconsciously,  he tapped his foot  on the center of  the panel,
which swayed ever so slightly beneath him. The phone rang, then rang again.

“Hi, Maggie,” greeted Mitch, nervously. ”Is–uh–Stephanie there?”

On the other line, Maggie was unsure of what to do next. “Hello, Mitch.”

She rolled her  eyes, a signal to Sutton–who’d  returned for a second tour of  duty–to flip on
the recording device  and caller ID equipment set  up near the stove. Then she  handed Stephanie the
phone.

Stephanie’s tone was breezy. “Mitch . . .”

“I don’t have much time, and we’re probably being listened in on, so I’ll make this short. I
love you . . .”

“I love  you, too, Mitch–and  you’re right. Why  don’t you come in  and let the  police help
us?”

“I can’t. Not  yet, anyway.” A man  sidled up to place a  call one spot away.  From behind the
screen separating the two phones, Mitch could see the fellow’s casual loafers.

“They know almost everything that’s going on. They want to help; they can protect us . . .”

“Like they  protected you  the other night?”  Mitch chimed  in. “Like they  helped me  in high
school?” He craned his neck to peer over the heads of the Home Expo guests, keeping a close eye on
the exit doors.

“They’ve beefed up security since then, Mitch. They have someone with me 24 hours a day. We’re
being moved to a safe-house this afternoon. ”

Mitch’s fingers  toyed with  his All-In-One  knife/tool, shoved  deep in  his pants  pocket. “We
can’t hide forever. I have to finish what I started. . . . Stef, it’ll be over in a few days–I
promise.” He tried to lighten the conversation–and send a hidden message. “And if you start to
worry, you make a quick pot of dog stew, okay?”

Stephanie blinked and  crinkled her eyebrows. What did  he mean bythat? Then its  meaning kicked in.
“Okay,” she replied.

“I love you.  And I didn’t kill anyone,  but I know who did.  If I come in now  we’ll never be
safe again, trust me.” A  silver sedan pulled up at the service dock and  two men bustled from its
doors. “I’ve got to run . . .”

He slammed down the receiver.

“I do trust you . . .” Her words were drowned out by the dial tone. Trapped in the center of the
sprawling building’s north corridor,

THE IDENTITY CHECK

349

Mitch, his heart pounding in his chest, crouched  down to consider his options. The agents seemed to
know exactly  where they were headed  and who they were  looking for. No doubt  they’d studied his
photograph and profile in every detail. At this stage of the game, they were primed for the hunt. He
again stared  down at  the floor panel,  his natural  mechanical curiosity at  its peak.  A recessed
pull-ring  on one  side of  the door,  a bolt  on  the other  edge, it  just might  work. With  busy
conventioneers traipsing up and down the corridor behind  him, Mitch pulled a handful of change from
his pocket and let it fall to the floor. The caller in the next booth shifted his weight uneasily as
Mitch dropped to his knees. “I’ve got it,” he  called out cheerily as he began to crawl about,
collecting the coins. A few  hurried passers by glared in the direction of the  man in the booth, on
his knees, his left hand busily dropping change as fast as it was picked up. What most could not see
was what  his right hand  was doing. Clutching  his pocket tool,  Mitch unscrewed the  trap door’s
large stainless  bolt. Meanwhile,  Mitch continued digging  coins from the  carpet around  the other
caller’s feet, purposely driving him to the far  side of his booth. Staring through a multitude of
legs and  feet, Mitch spotted the  dress slacks and  shiny shoes of  his pursuers. They were  a mere
hundred yards away, closing in  fast. If a simple utility repair box was  behind his floor panel, he
was dead; if, on the  other hand, it led to the mechanical conduit between  floors, he had a chance.
He peered up one last time, then jammed the driver bit under its lip and pried it up. To his relief,
a dark void greeted him. A rush of air blew into his face as he urged his shoulders down through the
opening. Hitting bottom, he turned and lunged upward, latching onto the door and easing it back over
the hole.  Then he lay still,  body hunched over,  knees pressed to his  chest. In seconds a  set of
heavy footsteps  tramped across the  floor above him, accompanied  by muffled voices.  “He’s not
here . . . Check the hallway . . .”

Mitch groped in the pitch  blackness and inched his way through what appeared  to be a concrete maze
of pipes and  wires. He chuckled softly.  How ironic: the floor  panel could end up  being either an
escape hatch or a door to a dungeon. Regardless, by choosing it, he’d just sealed his fate.

The voices  receded as  he crawled farther  from the  door above.  His eyes began  to adjust  to the
darkness. Here and there, tiny shards of light shot down through openings in the ceiling where pipes
or wires 350 KEN MERRELL

terminated. As he fumbled like  a mole to find his way, he cracked his skull  on one of the maze’s
low-hanging corners.

Suddenly the tunnel lit up behind him. “We’ve got a rat down here,”

a voice called out. “Get a light–he can’t be far.”

Mitch scooted along on his hands and knees, ending up in a spot in the conduit where it split into a
T. Both ways disappeared into a black unknown.

“He was right here picking up his change,” he heard the man who had been on the next phone say.

The light from the doorway momentarily dimmed as an agent dropped inside the horizontal shaft. Mitch
turned  the corner,  heading blindly  to the  left. A  whiff of  chemical cleaner  drifted down  the
passage, its  toxic odor mingling  with the  suffocating, dusty air.  The sound of  flushing toilets
echoed from  close by. Mitch  lurched in the  direction of the sound,  down a connecting  tunnel. In
seconds a beam of light  bounced off the wall at the end of the  tunnel just behind. Heavy breathing
and grunts echoed down the  shaft. Mitch lurched recklessly on until he came  to a metal step bolted
to a  concrete wall.  A narrow cavity  led upward  to another  small floor panel.  He groped  in the
semi-darkness overhead.  Unable to  feel any kind  of bolt or  latch, he  applied the weight  of his
shoulder–and the door  popped open. A large, vented  door provided enough light for  Mitch to tell
that he’d come up  into some sort of janitorial closet. Straightway he  repositioned the trap door
back in its place and piled some nearby buckets and boxes of paper towels on top of it. Then he took
stock of the situation.

He could see that the  lit-up door led to a restroom. Snatching a mop down  off the wall, he plunged
it inside a bucket, slung a yellow CAUTION: WET  FLOOR sign onto his shoulder and pushed through the
closet door, wheeling his tools  out into the middle of the floor. Freedom . .  . it was too good to
be true–literally.  Only then did Mitch  realize that he was  standing in a ladies’  restroom. A
flush came from the nearest stall; a woman looked up in surprise from the sink where she was washing
her hands. “Uh, sorry, ma’am,” he stammered. “I kinda forgot to put out the warning sign.”
Feeling like  some sort of  pervert, he wheeled  his bucket out into  the corridor, whistling  as he
went, and propped the  mop handle across the entrance. Then, dropping the  yellow sign on the floor,
he called back inside, “Would you please come and tell me when everyone is

THE IDENTITY CHECK

351

out?” The water in the sink shut off and the woman answered with a timid

“Yes.”

Gazing off  down the  busy hallway, Mitch  could see  a half-dozen agents  crowded around  the phone
booth, only 40 feet away.  A staticky voice rasped from a radio, set on the  shelf next to the phone
Mitch had been using. Intent on hearing directions from the man down in the tunnel below their feet,
they  were  oblivious  to  the  new  janitor  walking in  the  opposite  direction,  away  from  the
rubber-necking crowd.

352 KEN MERRELL

FORTY

SHE WAS REMARKABLY BEAUTIFUL, especially from a

distance. Her  new smile  glistened in  the sunlight; a  half-pound of  makeup blanketed  her tired,
crusty, sun-baked  shell; a piece  or two of expensive-looking  costume jewelry, another  new dress,
and, all combined, it did the trick. She had become a genuine, elderly, elegant old matron. That is,
until she opened her mouth to speak. “Can’t  say a blasted thing, these confounded chompers keep
fallin’ out!”  Nurse huffed,  her characteristic  soft, toothless  whistle now  more of  a steam
engine blowing its stack. The Alley Team stood  in awe at the miraculous transformation wrought by a
set of ceramic ivories. “You look incredible, Nurse,” Sound was the first to say.

“Mrs. Lambert, to you!”

Cap’n stepped  into the fray, playfully  applying a big  elbow to Sound’s rib-cage,  sending the
skinny, bird-legged man  sprawling across the floor. “She looks  kinda’ like Eddie’s daughter,
but much older. An’

now,” he continued, “she’s even tryin’ to talk the same language.”

“Ouch!” shrieked  Sound, straightening himself up  and brushing his ruffled  chest feathers back
into place.  Then he  turned on  Cap’n, only  partly in jest.  “Don’t you  have any  tact? She
doesn’t look that much older. . . . And you shouldn’t go around poking me like that!”

“She just better  keep her flap shut, is  all I can say,” Cap’n chuckled.  Greg, standing near
the door a pace or two behind Nurse, shot both of them a look that could scare a Halloween witch.

“S-see,” Nurse said as  she yanked the uppers free. “Ain’t no use  wearin’ ‘em if’n no
one’s gonna believe a word I says.”

Smitty seemed most intrigued  by the removable teeth. Staring at the dentures  Nurse had clutched in
her hand, he brushed lightly at his own rotting cuspids with the end of his fingers.

Greg patted the old woman on the back. “They’ll just take a little

THE IDENTITY CHECK

353

getting used to.” But Nurse wasn’t at all convinced. She thrust her tongue up to the roof of her
mouth and  started to gag,  then yanked the  bottom set free. “Feels  like I’m gonna  puke. This
trash they call cream  is more like peanut butter mint. Can’t stand  th’ taste a’ mint.” The
matron-to-be stuck  her finger in her  mouth and scraped it  along her gums, extracting  a spitladen
residue of green paste. She gagged again and went to wipe her finger on her dress. Stopping herself,
she looked over at Sound, who shook his head.

Greg shook his  own head as he observed the  faces of the little team. Cap’n’s  smile had turned
into a sour scowl–as if he himself were about to gag–poor Smitty looked like he’d just had all
hopes of a  new mouth of his own dashed  to pieces with a giant sledge  hammer, while Sound’s face
mirrored absolute disgust. He reached into his shirt  pocket and brought out a crinkled paper napkin
and held it out to her.

“I have  an idea,”  Greg said. The  entire team  turned as  one, as though  looking away  from a
classmate throwing up on the gym floor. “What  if we send Sound everywhere Mrs. Lambert goes–her
butler, if you  will. We could dress  him in a fancy  servant’s outfit or something  that made him
look the part. Then he could do most of the talking.”

Smitty nodded  enthusiastically, and Cap’n’s sourpuss  expression bloomed into a  big grin. “A
tux with tails,” he laughed. “White gloves, too.”

“Get serious,” Sound grumped. “It’d never work.”

“We could get a suit for Cap’n and a girdle to slim him up a bit,”

Greg continued. “The flecks of gray in his hair and a nice suit would make him look like a gambler
on the prowl. He’d just hang around, keep the two of you safe if anything went wrong.”

If he’d had a voice, Smitty would have  laughed out loud. Sound, however, was tittering enough for
them both. Hands on knees and

‘funny-tears’ leaking  down his face, this  time he made  sure to stay  out of reach of  the big
black man’s burly elbows.

“‘At mean I don’t got to wear these darn  things?” Nurse jiggled her set of new teeth in her
hand.

“No, it just means you won’t need to say much.” Greg turned to Smitty.

“I almost forgot, did you go see Eddie?”

Smitty nodded, bent over and rammed his hand in the front pocket of his baggy pants. He jerked out a
new Nevada  driver’s licence and three  false credit cards and  handed them to Greg.  Nurse peered
over 354 KEN MERRELL

Greg’s arm  at the  fake ID, an  impressive piece of  work. “Ain’t  bad, for a  cheap passport
photo. Ain’t  bad at all. Maybe  ‘at boy a’  Eddie’s got a bit  a’ good left in  him after
all.”

Sound gave a start. “Oh, I almost forgot to tell you. Last night Ritter was by the T-bird, looking
for  us. He  told my  friend he’d  be back  tonight.  . .  . Oh,  and he  was wearing  a new  suit
himself.”

“I don’t like it,” Cap’n thundered. “‘Less he stole some a’ Lightnin’s money, he’d
never be able t’  afford a new suit. He’s two-timin’ us, I  know it. A double-agent two-timer.
The day’s comin’ we hang that boy on the long arm where everyone can see his . . .”

Nurse stopped Cap’n in his tracks. “‘At’s enough. Don’t know nothin’

yet. We best give Ritter th’ benefit of th’ doubt.”

“Do you think he’d turn on us?” Greg asked.

“Don’t think so, Sunny, but like I said ‘fore,  he always did run on a diff’rent track ‘an
ever’one else. But I never once caught him lyin’ t’

me.”

Greg  remained  cautiously neutral.  “I  still  suggest we  don’t  let  him know  where  we’re
staying.”

“Agreed,” Nurse answered.

Mitch was on  his third city bus, now  headed up Sahara Avenue.  The last thing he wanted  to do was
lead a pack of disgruntled Federal agents to the team’s doorstep–thus the bus-hopping. The quick
escape from  the convention  center had  been a  fluke. It  was unlikely  his ingenuity  would again
prevail over the government’s best. Maybe Stephanie was right. Maybe it was time to turn the whole
mess  over to  the FBI.  Surely they’d  see that  he’d been  set up,  wouldn’t they?  They’d
understand how his prints got on the gun that killed Mike–maybe. But how would they respond to the
fire that sent the body shop up in flames, or his destroying evidence, or his inciting a major panic
at Three Queens. Not a chance. They hadn’t believed his story about the conveniencestore robbery .
. . this absurd chain of events would blow their socksright off.

After exiting the bus,  Mitch walked to the apartment building, took the  elevator to the 5th floor,
and gave the door a gentle rap. “Who is it?” Cap’n boomed from behind the door.

“Mitch.” He could hear  the muted voices of Cap’n and Nurse, arguing  whether or not he should
use the ‘Lightning’ moniker.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

355

“For crup’s sake,” Nurse ranted. “You knows who it is. Jus’ open it up.”

Cap’n  cracked the  door, then  turned  sideways to  let Mitch  squeeze  past. Piles  of cash  and
miscellaneous receipts  cluttered the  kitchen floor.  Sound held a  notepad in  his hand,  a pencil
crammed behind his ear. His mood was somber, fretful. “How much cash do you still have?”

“I don’t  know,” Mitch replied, a  bit startled. He felt  like a nickel arcade  employee whose
cash drawer had been found short. Sound sensed Mitch’s minor annoyance. After all, it was his cash
in the first place. “Ritter stopped by the T-Bird, wearing a new suit,” he explained.

“We need to know where he got the money. The only  way to decide if it came from us, is to account
for every dollar.”

Cap’n reiterated his venomous  view of the situation. “I say he’s  a twotimin’ double agent.
Need to hang him for treason.”

The rest of the team, tired of  Cap’n’s constant diatribes, ignored the intrusion. Mitch plucked
his wallet  from his hip. “Fifty-three-dollars  and change,” he  said, pulling out a  handful of
coins from his pocket.

“How much have you spent?”

Mitch turned his head in thought. “Ten bucks in change for phone calls . . . about five for lunch.
You paid for the apartment and deposit .

. .”

“I’ve got that. Anything else?”

“Not that I can think of.”

Sound, his interrogation  complete, began to count in  a whisper. His pencil tapped  the notepad, at
least some of the calculations being performed manually. “Carry the one . . .” he muttered under
his breath, “.

. . thirteen, plus nine . . .” Finally he slid the pencil to his ear. “That makes us only thirty
dollars and twenty-five-cents short. Not enough to buy a suit.”

Cap’n barged into the breach. “See, I told ya’. He’s on the other side . . .”

“Cap’n!” Nurse carped, her voice adamant. “I ain’t goin’ t’ tell ya’

‘gain. We’s tired a’ hearin’ yer jaw flap on an’ on ‘bout Ritter. Let’s give the boy a
word a’ his  own ‘fore we toss ‘im in  th’ pig slop.” Her harangue ended,  Nurse turned to
Sunny. “You got any ideas?”

Greg looked around the room. It was strange how the money scattered about on the table didn’t seem
to bother the team. They had nothing, yet in  their minds they had everything they needed. Even with
half of the $20,000 gone–more than any one of them had earned 356 KEN MERRELL

in the past five years–they were only thirty dollars short. Thirty measlydollars, he mused. It’d
be interesting  to see  if the best,  most scrupulousof  corporations could come  so close.  With no
formal accounting system, half-a-dozen different people dipping into the stash, and no one in charge
of dispersements or doling out change, it was a remarkable thing.

“First I  need to say,” Greg  began, “I am deeply  impressed by the honesty  and dedication of
your little family. I’ve never seen such loyalty among  friends. I want you to know that no matter
what happens during  the next few days,  I’ve learned more from  you than you’ll ever  know. . .
.”

Cap’n swallowed hard,  Sound was starting to tear  up, Smitty stared down at the  floor, and Nurse
listened intently,  each absorbed in thought,  each feeling guilty  for the secret they  kept tucked
deep inside. Greg continued. “I always thought success in life was governed by the amount of money
I made, the car I drove, the size of my house,  my job title. You’ve taught me so much more. I got
caught up  with things.  Things don’t make  one happy–it’s  all an illusion.  You live  on the
streets of a city full of false dreams, yet every day you rise above it all by your character.” He
looked Sound  in the eye and  blinked back his own  feelings. “Thank you.” An  awkward stillness
settled over the room, a warm chill. Like being wrapped in a familiar blanket on a winter’s night,
then finding that the blanket  has been torn to shreds, a cold sliver  of deceit pierced what should
have been a celebration  of friendship. After a long pause, Nurse broke  the silence. “Now ‘fore
we gets mushy, best we get this cash put away and figure out what we plan on doin’ with Ritter.”

After going  over a dozen instructions  and executing a quick  trial run of Sound’s  new listening
equipment, the team,  each with a giant  bowl of ice cream,  sat down to listen  to Mitch’s latest
exploits. They  roared with  laughter and  “ooohed” and “ahhed”  in turn  as he  related his
escape from the convention center, his multiple bus  rides, how he and Smitty had managed to purloin
Vinnie’s car,  the 220-mph  chase up  the freeway, and  his bumpy  ride through–and  culvert nap
in–the desert.  When Mitch  described his future  plans, how  he would return  the Ferrari  to its
original owner by way of a quick wash and wax at the car wash before delivering it, the team laughed
until they cried. By quarter to eleven that evening Ritter was on his way to the T-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

357

bird.  The pleats  in his  pants and  suit coat,  unlike the  night before,  were gone,  replaced by
wrinkles, having  served as  his pajamas through  a long,  painful night under  the Rio  bridge. The
throbbing in his little finger was a vivid  reminder of the brutal nature of his new bedfellow–who
now, unbeknownst to Ritter, was ordering his death. The Feds too, now lingering in the shadows, held
out hope that the Englishman would lend a clue as to the whereabouts of Mike’s body.

Smitty waited on the tattered couch in the T-bird’s foyer. It had been a simple choice to whom the
task should  fall. The mute had  volunteered before being asked.  He was the most  expendable of the
team, and if  he were caught he  couldn’t be coerced to  give up any information.  Wearing his old
street clothes, consisting of some tattered brown pants cinched high by a pair of red suspenders, he
was still mostly  clean-shaven, with only a day  or two’s growth of straggly  whiskers clinging to
his broad face.

In his report to  the group, Mitch had commented on Smitty’s  singular bravery and quick-thinking.
Now, waiting for Ritter to show, he sat reveling in his heroic deeds. Nonchalantly, he reached up to
press his earpiece  tightly in his ear. Sound’s  device was working well. Each member  of the team
was posted  within a few blocks,  scattered at several preassigned  spots. Cap’n was the  first to
report Ritter’s movements.  “I got him,” he  whispered into the cheap,  two-way radio strapped
under his shirt. “He’s walkin’ east on  Imperial.” Cap’n, too, was dressed in his familiar
Army garb. After  being free of the rags  for a few days,  however, he now realized how  bad the old
shirt and faded coveralls smelled–not to mention the too small heavy coat choking his large torso.
Sweat coursed down his head and neck. He longed for his ice-water-filled cooler.

Nurse, meanwhile, hobbled  unnoticed to an intercept  course. Snug in her old  clothing, despite the
smell, she  smiled her toothless grin.  She’d take an  old pair of  boxer shorts any day  over the
repressive garter  belt and girdle  she’d been forced  to wear. The  old woman peered  through the
darkness, her eyes still struggling to adjust to the bright flashing headlights.

Ritter paused  on the  sidewalk outside  the T-bird  and rocked  back on  his heels,  looking around
warily. The long walk had  flared up his bunions again; the new footwear made  it all the worse. His
rags had been properly discarded by the maid at Three Queens. His old pair of com-358 KEN MERRELL

fortable shoes had been the greatest loss.

Just inside the door, Smitty’s mouth twitched nervously. His neck tendons tightened and relaxed as
he watched Ritter wobble  up the sidewalk. He pressed the transmit button  on his own radio, locking
it in place, and pulled the earpiece out and tucked it under his shirt. Suddenly the radio whistled.
“I got a bogie! I repeat, I got a bogie!”

Cap’n shrieked. “Someone’s on his tail. Get out, Smitty! I repeat, pull out!”

Smitty uncrossed his  lanky legs and wiggled his  foot. Ritter entered the lobby  and glanced around
the room. Then he fixed his gaze on his tonguetied friend.

“Crimony, Smitty, I didn’t expect you to meet me.”  He gave the mute the once over. “Ya look
right sod,  mate, wit’ your whiskers  gone.” Smitty nodded  and stroked the lapel  of Ritter’s
suit between  his fingers.  “That’s right–hit the  lotto. That Mr.  Vinnie’s a  right cheeky
devil, he is. Can smile at ya’

an’ stab ya’ in the back in the same instant.” He held up a bandaged finger.

“He chopped me pinky off pert near at the joint. Told me it was a warnin’

not to cross him. Stupid bloke thinks I’ll  give it up, where we deposited the merchandise.” The
Brit plopped down on the couch next to Smitty. Two  blocks away Mitch was on a dead run; Greg was on
his way from a different direction. Smitty didn’t deserve to take the fall for them. Skidding to a
stop at the neighboring business’s dumpster, Mitch gasped, “Where is he, Cap’n?”

Cap’n pointed  down the  street to  a man  dressed in ragged  clothes and  talking into  his shirt
collar. Mitch squinted at the figure. “Who do you think he is?”

“Shhh,”  Cap’n said.  He pressed  his earpiece  tight, eavesdropping  on Ritter’s  one-sided
conversation.

“You remember me mum, don’t you, Smitty?” Ritter asked, his tone softening.

Smitty nodded. He’d seen the photos before.

“Me mum’s in the hospital. She ain’t got a soul t’ keep an eye on her no more. I’d move me
blooming butt back to Yorkshire today–if me brother wasn’t in such a fix. He ain’t quite right
in the head, you know. . . . I figure fifty-grand’ll get him off the dole an’ in a program. Once
he’s better, he  can take care a’  me mum. When the  money’s in the Midland  Bank, then I’ll
take Mr. Vinnie to the  merchandise, but not until the money’s there. That  ought to give you time
to make a switch. Mr.  Vinnie’s a bad one. If I don’t get a chance  to tell the others, you tell
’em goodbye fer me, okay?” Ritter stood.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

359

“You watch your back. Some feller’s been tailing me.” Smitty nodded.

“You’re all  right, pet.”  He gave  Smitty a  slap on  the back  and turned  to walk  from the
building.

From across the  parking lot, Cap’n, his face  leaking big tears down onto his  heavy, green coat,
stared at the  T-bird’s front doors. “What is  it? Greg asked, still breathing too  hard to hear
what had been said.

“He’s goin’  to get himself  killed, the stupid  bloke. He’s decided  to take Mr.  Vinnie on
himself. He knows someone’s followin’ him, too.”

Still lounging in the foyer, Smitty snapped the medical  tape that held the small radio to his chest
and slid it out of  his shirt to the couch, where he shoved it between  the cushions. He then got up
and followed  Ritter to the  street. The Alley  Team looked  on helplessly as  a gray van  pulled up
alongside the curb  and a couple of Federal  agents got out and shoved Smitty  inside. Mitch started
off to help his friend, but Cap’n caught him by the arm. “We knew it weren’t safe when he went
in,” he said. “We don’t need t’ worry. They can’t do much to a man that can’t talk.”

Into the wee  hours of morning Barnes and  Horne interrogated the man who, they  figured, could shed
some light  on the whole  mess. It wasn’t  until two  a.m. that they  came to the  conclusion that
Smitty truly couldn’t talk. Horne, however, still held to  the notion that it was more a case that
he wouldn’t talk. They still had no idea who  he was or where he’d come from–no records of any
sort.  Neither had  he demanded  to be  released. On  the contrary,  he sat  through the  barrage of
questioning, sometimes curling into a fetal ball if the voices became too loud.

“Call the  department shrink,” Barnes  ordered. “Get  him out of  bed–get him in  here. This
guy’s either nuts or the toughest nut I’ve ever seen.”

Meanwhile, crouched near the door leading to  Ford’s Frozen Food Locker’s basement, Cap’n held
a  flashlight while  Mitch  struggled to  crack  his own  tough problem.  The  lock just  wouldn’t
cooperate. Finally the big man’s patience had worn thin. “Step aside! I’ll break it in!”

“I’ve almost got it. Hold your horses,” Mitch replied, only slightly distracted by Cap’n’s
bluster.

“You been tellin’ me that for thirty minutes. We ain’t got all night.”

360 KEN MERRELL

Mitch threw back his shoulders and stretched his arms. “What? You think Mike might get up and walk
away?”

“Hey, you said ya’ could pick the lock . . .”

“I can.  I just didn’t  know it would  take this long. Now  please be quiet  and let me  work in
peace.”

Cap’n leaned back. Steadying the beam on the  doorknob, he angled his legs down the small concrete
stairway that  led to the door,  resigned to watching  the man work. The  team had taken a  vote and
decided that it was time to move the body. The only problem with the move was that it might be a few
days before a new home could be secured.  Cap’n’s job had been to secure a big-screen television
box, which  he pulled from  the Hilton’s dumpster.  Mitch, after finding  a car without  a locking
wheel, had hot-wired an  old Ford Falcon in the Hilton’s employee parking  lot. The feat had taken
15 seconds flat. After  their caper was finished, a hundred-dollar-bill would be  left in the car as
payment to its owner, along with a note of apology for taking it without asking. Everything had gone
as planned, except getting at the body. Without Smitty, it was a long-shot. Cap’n released a drawn
out sigh, then an involuntary shudder. “Don’t know if I’ll be able t’ sleep with your friend
there in the house.”

“I haven’t  been able to sleep  since we brought him  here,” Mitch replied as  the door popped
open. Then he said, “This isn’t going to be easy.”

Cap’n scrambled to his feet. “But it’s open.”

“I don’t mean the door. I mean seeing him again.”

“I know what you mean,” Cap’n said with a  note of melancholy. “I killed my best friend when
I  was sixteen.  Back then  I had  a terrible  temper. Sometimes  I didn’t  even know  what I  was
doin’.”

“Is that what happened to the guard the other night?”

“Guess so. I don’t remember much when I go off like that. See, me an’

Lou–he was my  best friend–we grew up together  in the slums of Jackson,  Mississippi. Our mamas
both worked, so after school we found ways t’

keep ourselves occupied. One day I found an old, stray mutt. . . . Man, I loved that dog. Called him
Buzz,” Cap’n chuckled. “‘cause he was always  buzzin’ round after his tail. Taught him how
to sit. Saved  half my supper beans ever’ night  to share with him.” They stopped  a little over
halfway down the dimly lit hall. Cap’n pointed up at the numbers above one of the lockers. “This
the one?”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

361

Mitch nodded and went to work on its padlock–a much easier task.

“You had beans for supper every night?”

“Weren’t nothin’ else.”

“So what happened?”

“After a few months  Lou found some new friends. They  made fun a’ me an’ my  dog; said he was
nothin’  but a  worm-infested mongrel.  I didn’t  really care  what they  said, but  Lou’s new
friends told  him that if he  wanted to be part  a’ their club, he  needed t’ kill my  dog. Even
loaned him the gun.”

Mitch tugged on the lock’s hasp and it broke free. “What did he do?”

Cap’n clicked open  the handle on the big  freezer, swung the door open, and  gazed distantly into
the dark  box. Both men thoughtfully  busied themselves moving cuts  of beef. “I heard  a shot and
come runnin’ from the  projects. I found Buzz. He was twistin’ ‘round  on the ground, bitin’
at his  leg an’ hip. Well,  when Lou raised his  gun and let loose  with a second shot,  I guess I
grabbed him. Next thing I knows I was watchin’  Buzz bleed to death. Lou was layin’ right there,
too. I lost both  my best friends the same day,  right there in the alley. They let  me off; said it
was a crime of passion.  About that time all my friends were headed to ‘Nam,  so I tried t’ join
up with the Marines. They wouldn’t take me. Said  I was crazy. The next year my little brother and
mama were killed in a drive-by shootin’. After that, I up and left Mississippi.” Cap’n stopped
to remove his coat. Like casting the memory out of  his mind, he tossed it on a stack of meat. “We
best finish up. We want t’ get some sleep ‘fore sunrise.”

“The man can’t  speak, Agent Barnes. He’s a mute.  From the size and shape of  his head, I’d
guess he suffered trauma to his head or spine as an infant. Regardless, I’ve never met anyone like
him before.”

“Do you think he knows what’s going on?”

The psychiatrist shrugged. “It’s hard to say.  He could be marginally functional or very bright.
From what I can tell,  he’s never learned to sign or read or write. I  say you drop a microchip in
his back pocket,  turn him loose and  see where he goes. He’ll  probably go back to  where he came
from, and just  might help you catch your  man.” Barnes nodded. In conformance  with the collected
wisdom of the FBI’s best, it was decided. With a donut clutched in one hand and a cup of coffee in
the other, 362 KEN MERRELL

Smitty was led out the building’s rear door and wished a pleasant morning.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

363

FORTY-ONE

THE STORY  OF THE MISSING  GIRL had moved  from the front page  of The Las  Vegas Sun to  the second
page–all in the same number of days. Barnes  had promised Bino the maximum amount of protection if
he would give up what he knew. Only by cooperating with them, he was told, could he hope to save his
daughter. With the  missing agent mystery now in  its sixth day, the trail leading  to Mike’s body
was  growing cold.  What’s more,  the Agency’s  resources  were being  spread thin.  Two men  on
Ritter’s trail–one during the day, the other  at night–two staying with Stephanie, two more on
Bino, and  half-a-dozen charting Vinnie’s every  move–as well as  keeping an eye on  his carcass
full of maggots–it was just getting to be too  much. Barnes and Horne were all strung out. Outside
pressures were building,  with the SAC getting heat  from Headquarters in D.C. Arrests  needed to be
made, families needed  to be informed, and someone needed  to take the long, hard fall  for the lost
agent. The biggest break had come with the swift  meltdown of the T-bird desk clerk. Three rooms had
been paid  for with cash.  The guests staying  in those rooms hadn’t  been at all  typical, having
actually stayed the night. The hunchbacked mute with the red suspenders was with them, along with an
old woman and a  slender man, who was lacking in  hair. Mitch had fit the description  of one of the
two most sane of the insane bunch. Cap’n’s description had somehow slipped through the cracks of
the  clerk’s memory.  A  second, less  significant  break in  the case  had  occurred when  Smitty
sauntered into Reverend Keller’s kitchen for a bowl of  hot mush and the best cold orange juice on
the city block. The  reverend was more concerned about his little flock  and the ecclesiastical aura
of confidentiality than in giving the information the two agents demanded. One agent had leaned over
the desk in  Keller’s little office while  the other stood in  the hallway, keeping an  eye on the
mute, who was shoveling brown sugar-sprinkled mush in his mouth like it was going out of style.

364 KEN MERRELL

About the time  Smitty had taken his place  in line for a  second bowl of cereal, the  voices in the
back office had become heated, and every eye in  the lunch hall turned its attention on the two cops
harassing the shepherd  of their flock. The retired  plumber had finally lost his  cool. Jerking the
collar from his  shirt and recalling the vocabulary  of his pipe-bending days, Bart  Keller lit into
the  two troublemakers.  In short  order he’d  sent the  both of  them packing,  at the  same time
tightening his trust and  loving hold on his wayward flock, who had  no idea the soft-spoken servant
could wield such a big pipe.

Distracted by the  fracas, Smitty, in a fraction of  a second, had dropped his bowl,  leaned down to
pick it up, and disappeared under the table,  crawling past the enormous legs of Cook, then scooting
out the kitchen exit.

When the  suits realized the mute  was no longer  standing in the  soup line, they tore  through the
hall, splitting the  wave of homeless hungry like  Moses parting the Red Sea. Indeed,  they needed a
miracle to  keep from being  the laughingstock of  the Agency. Their inability  to follow a  man who
seemed just  marginally functional would  become legendary if Smitty  got away. After  an exhaustive
search, they  came to the one  conclusion they most dreaded:  They’d fumbled away the  second best
break the Agency had. The minor miracle of vanishing  into thin air had been granted to a mute whose
stepmother had claimed wasn’t worth the energy to drown.

It didn’t take long for the agents to buy 20 dollars’ worth of information from a man the others
called  “Finders,”  their boneheaded  bad  luck  seemed to  have  turned  for the  better.  With
Finders’ help, by 11:00  a.m. they’d located the remnants of  Nurse’s shack, Cap’n’s empty
home under  I-15, and the homeless  shelter near the Strip  where Sound had once  stayed. Smitty’s
residence had as yet eluded them.

The big day was at hand–crunch time on the  Strip. Avoiding the far corner of the back bedroom and
the big-screen television box  packed with dry ice and wrapped in several  layers of dirty blankets,
the Alley Team saw  to its last-minute preparations. The mood in the  apartment was somber. The loss
of the  silent deep-thinker, the  character behind the  wide, smiling face,  left a painful  hole in
everyone’s heart. Mitch  seemed to take Smitty’s absence  the hardest. He knew how  much the man
idolized his bold style; how he was all ears while Mitch

THE IDENTITY CHECK

365

described his clever get-away  at the convention center. It seemed that, in  a way, Smitty had given
himself up  as a sacrificial  lamb. The tensions  seemed to  mount on every  side. Nurse was  up and
dressed, and  had used  a new, non-minty  brand of  denture cream  to affix her  teeth to  her gums.
Nevertheless, her grumbling and  goading hadn’t changed one bit. A big bundle  of nerves, she took
it upon  herself to  find fault  with everything  and everyone: Sound  didn’t look  at all  like a
butler; the way he’d fixed her hair was “silly-lookin’,” not to mention the fact that he had
used way too  much hair spray; her stockings clung  to her legs “as tight as  Ace bandages;” and
they were all going to get caught, “sure as shootin’!”

Greg watched with fascination as the crabby old woman stormed around the apartment. Her made-up face
brimmed with happy wrinkles  even while her mouth was spewing contempt. The  source of her venom was
threefold: first, she was jittery as all get out, dreading her coming-out party; a second factor was
her rough upbringing and  hard life; and part stemmed from Smitty’s absence.  This the entire team
understood. In their  eyes she was a remarkable woman  who had risen above all odds.  Because of her
innate goodness  and love, her  giving heart, her  plucky courage and  staunch determination–which
some would instead  term ‘reckless abandon’ and ‘stubbornness’–she’d  flourished. As she
started out the door,  she turned sharply, stretched the white gloves up  over her wrists, and said,
“An’ what you findin’ so funny

‘bout all this, Sunny?”

Greg blinked and fitted a  frown on his face. “I was just thinking what  an amazing woman you are,
and how foolish  your husband was to  let you get away. You’re  truly one of a  kind, Mrs. Rebecca
Lambert. And  no matter what  happens, you’ll always  be a winner to  me. The ‘Rain  in Spain’
can’t even change that.”

Nurse winked, then chomped her teeth to keep them  in place. “You can tell me all that mushy stuff
after we bring back the dough.” She flashed an anxious smile, then opened the door and stepped out
into the hallway.

Sound followed,  then took Greg’s  extended hand. “You’re  an incredible person,  too,” Greg
said, giving Sound’s slim fingers a brotherly squeeze. “Take good care of her.”

“I will.”

“And remember, pull out at any sign of trouble.”

Sound doubled over as he coughed and clutched at his bruised ribs. 366 KEN MERRELL

“Don’t worry,” he sighed,  “I’m the biggest coward of the bunch.  Believe me, I wouldn’t
even be going if she wasn’t with me.”

Greg clapped a hand on the man’s gaunt shoulder. “You okay?”

“Fine. Just a little cough.”

“I hope so. If it makes any difference, you’re the only one of us brave enough to admit you’re
a coward.”

The grand dame and her faithful butler disappeared down  the hall. Greg had closed the door and gone
back to studying the master plan, when Mitch came out of the bathroom, drying his hair with the same
towel the rest of the team had used previously. “You think they can do it?”

he asked, dropping the towel on the floor.

Greg stared  derisively down  at the towel,  then over at  Mitch, whose  mind was fastened  on other
things. “If  anybody can pull  off this crazy  stunt, Nurse can.” He  stepped to the  window and
parted the blinds. There,  crossing the parking lot, were the two  well-dressed vagabonds. The sight
evoked in him the same feelings as when he  sent his first group of junior executive trainees out on
their maiden journeys.  Mitch ran his fingers  back through his hair. “I’ve  been thinking about
Smitty.”

“Me too.” Greg walked over to where Mitch had tossed his towel.

“If they let him go, you think they’ll try to follow him back?”

“That’s what I’ve been wondering. I hope  not. There’s no telling what the authorities would
do if they found what’s  inside that box in the back room–the one  we’ve all been avoiding all
morning.” He picked up the towel and shook it  out. “What does your wife say when you leave your
towel laying around on the floor?”

Mitch stared  dumbly at  the towel  in Greg’s  hand, then  at the  floor where  it had  lain. “I
didn’t even realize I’d dropped it.”

The expression on Greg’s face was one of empathy,  not of finding fault. “How long have you been
married?”

“Three years. Why?”

“She must not complain much.  I used to do the same thing. It was the  second year of our marriage
before Linda finally admitted that it drove her  crazy to pick up after me.” Greg stared distantly
at the  floor, the  bitter-sweet memory  still fresh  in his  mind. Mitch  lifted his  eyebrows. The
conversation had taken a strange turn. “Sorry. . . . I’ll put it away.”

“No, I’m sorry. The oddest things make me yearn for what I can’t

THE IDENTITY CHECK

367

have. What I’d give to  have Linda nag me again about picking up my dirty  socks. . . . Now, about
the body, do you have any ideas where to put it?”

Longing to jump on a  bus or two and come along home–just like  Mitch–but having no cash, Smitty
rested on a park bench  off Mojave and Harris. A fountain in the center of  the park sent geysers of
water high into the air.  When the water reached its peak, it would hover for  a split second on the
gushing stream below, then tumble back down through the strong jet, back to the rippling waters that
had given it birth.

The fountain took the sting out of the afternoon  heat. For Smitty the place had been a regular spot
to  meditate and  ponder when  the  sun rose  high. The  park usually  emptied  in the  heat of  the
afternoon, and he  would find himself trying  to build up the courage  to wade in the  water like he
often saw the  children do, their mothers close  at hand, smiling and laughing.  Feeling the cooling
mist against  his face, the  mute reflected on  the simple thought that  had plagued him  for years.
Could he get close enough to slip off his shoes and just put his feet in the water? Would it swallow
him up, pull him under? Why were the children so unafraid as they frolicked and splashed about? They
seemed to find it exhilarating. He gazed across the babbling fountain to a man on a bench, reading a
magazine. The stranger  peered up periodically from  his publication. Smitty thought it  odd that he
sat opposite the breeze.

Smitty  stood; the  man peered  over the  top  of his  magazine. Sliding  his thumbs  under his  red
suspenders, Smitty,  feigning a leisurely  stroll, made his way  across the fresh-cut  grass, deeper
into  the park.  The man  stood and  tucked his  magazine under  his arm,  an act  that didn’t  go
unnoticed by the crafty street urchin, who stopped to pick up a small feather from the lawn. Holding
it up to the sky, he ran it through his  fingers, then stroked it across his cheek and forehead. The
stranger paused, then sought  relief from the scorching sun under a nearby  palm. Smitty resumed his
loafing, paying no mind to his stalker. By and  by, the man nonchalantly dropped onto the soft, cool
turf to pick up where  he’d left off in his reading. In a sudden  burst of energy Smitty stretched
his new-found wings  to the air and  dashed across the lawn like  a bird in flight,  back toward the
fountain. The  agent gave chase,  stopping briefly to  report that the mute  was on the  run. Smitty
skidded to  a halt  on the up-wind  side of  the fountain and  raised his feather  high in  the air,
setting it adrift in the wind. It glided softly  on the breeze, coming to rest on the water, bobbing
gently on its surface. Just 368 KEN MERRELL

then the  agent came into  sight. With Smitty’s  gaze on him, he  quickly narrowed his  stride and
tried his best to shield himself behind another paltry palm.

Again Smitty  took a seat  on the bench  and soaked in the  pond’s mist, studying  the feather’s
movements and  pondering his  own life, mirrored  in that tiny  speck of  sodden wing. Within  a few
minutes the small feather seemed to lose its buoyancy. Under the waves it went, over and over again,
being dunked like a drowning child.

Nurse stood next to Sound  at the cashier’s desk with a false New York ID  and a purse full of new
credit cards.  She smiled widely, even  as her knees  knocked together under her  dress. “That’s
five thousand,  Mrs. Thurston,”  the cashier  said, placing  the last  hundred-dollar chip  on the
stack.

“Have a nice afternoon.”

With her gloved  hand, Nurse scooted the stack  toward Sound, who once again  addressed the cashier.
“Would you give us a thousand in fifty-dollar chips?” He peeled off ten bills and slid them back
across the counter, then deposited  the balance of the heavy wad in his  pants pocket. As the teller
stacked the  chips, Nurse peeked up  out of the corner  of her eye to  the camera in the  corner. It
swept slowly back  and forth, making indelible digital  images of their illegal act.  Her mind raced
back some five decades earlier. Only 20 years old,  she’d taken a job with the laundry business on
Carson. They paid  25 cents a day, then a  decent wage. She went by the  name ‘Becky’ back then.
Living  in a  little studio  apartment behind  the laundry,  she was  known by  all as  “the crazy
girl.” In those days, a single mom raising an infant daughter was considered an outcast. The other
employees often teased and  ridiculed her. But Becky carried on, doing her  job, loving her precious
Belle. She was a good baby, for the most part  sleeping during the day and only needing to be nursed
at the noon  break and before and after work.  The young mother found solace in  pretending the babe
was yet alive.  The great depression didn’t  hit Vegas quite as  hard as the rest  of the country.
That’s  why Becky  was there.  One of  the attendants  at the  Alabama State  Mental Hospital  had
recommended the  change. Since people still  came to the city  to try their hand  at chance, pouring
their meager earnings  into the hands of the rich  and powerful, the place was more  boom than bust.
Still, the laundry business struggled to survive. Before  she’d had four solid weeks of work under
her hat, the place closed

THE IDENTITY CHECK

369

its doors.

A sharp elbow gently jogged Nurse from her musings. “You okay?”

Sound whispered.

“Oh . .  . fine,” she mumbled,  the air trilling past  her teeth. She finished  gathering up the
stacks of chips and held them tightly in her gloved hand.

“Let’s start  with a  few slots; maybe  it’ll help  calm the nerves,”  Sound said  above the
clamor of  the Casino. They  weaved their way  across the room. Taking  up a corner  position, Nurse
deposited the chips in her purse and they leisurely  began feeding a quarter slot. Just then a tall,
handsome black  man in his  mid-fifties strutted  through the front  door, carrying a  dark, leather
briefcase. His outfit  was typical Vegascool–a pair  of dark dress slacks and  a deep jade-colored
shirt, partly  unbuttoned to  show off  a gold  chain suspended from  his thick  neck. His  face was
clean-shaven,  except for  an impeccably-trimmed  goatee, peppered  with gray.  His head  shaven, it
reflected the flashing lights that bordered the ceiling entrance.

“Let’s move over there,” suggested Sound, motioning to another bank of slots. “I’ll go get
some more change.”

Nurse hobbled over  to another stool and propped herself  up on its cushion. In a  few minutes Sound
returned with  a plastic bucket filled  with onedollar tokens. Nurse  opened her purse and  gave him
half of her chips. Then she went back to feeding the slot machine.

Within a few  minutes Sound was parked on a  toilet seat in the men’s room,  transferring the cash
and chips  into a briefcase that  had been slid under  the partition from the  neighboring stall. He
snapped the case shut, slid it back to the adjacent commode, flushed the toilet, and returned to the
casino, where Nurse was still playing her one-armed bandit.

In the meantime, after a minute had elapsed, Cap’n stood, towering above the stall door, gazing at
his sweaty  reflection in  the bathroom  mirror. He  flushed his  own toilet  and exited  the stall.
Standing at the  sink, he tucked the  case under his arm and  doused his hands and  face with water.
Large rings  of sweat had formed  under each arm  pit. He patted dry  the slick, tender skin  on his
head. And  another minute  later he was  back watching  the winning numbers  scroll across  the Keno
game’s giant screen.

Sound leaned over to see inside Nurse’s bucket, silently trying to calcu-370 KEN MERRELL

late how many tokens she had left. The Las  Vegas Hilton touted 97% returns. That meant that, if the
odds held  true, the first time  through she would  have $97.00 of  her $100.00 in change.  The next
round would  return $94.00, and so  on until it was  all gone. He lost  track on the 25th  time, and
decided the math was toasting his tired brain.

Nurse mindlessly kept depositing the coins in the  slot, remembering back to the first time she ever
saw Eddie. He’d pulled up behind the vacant laundry business in a shiny new ‘49 Ford pickup, its
bed jammed with  suitcases, gym equipment and trophies.  For six long years, since the  death of his
wife, he’d taken  his anger out on  his opponents in the  ring. When the anger  was finally spent,
he’d decided to take his winnings and open his own gym.

The young fighter had hopped out of the truck with a  spring in his step and a smile on his face. It
was a sight she would  never forget. Having taken on too many fighters, now he  was ready to take on
the world. Sad-faced, six-year-old Marge had climbed down  from the other side of the cab. Her small
blanket dragging behind  on the ground, her left  thumb was firmly planted between  her little lips,
held by a suction  force that only the power of  love and security could pry loose.  By the time she
arrived, little  Marge had  already missed  her kindergarten  year. Two  months passed  before Eddie
actually met Marge’s pair of new friends, Becky  and Belle. Too busy training new fighters, he’d
brushed off  his daughter’s tales of  fun and adventure out  back in the nearly  abandoned garage.
Marge was a shy girl who didn’t make friends easily. He thought that the two “silly girls” she
talked about  constantly were only make-believe–and  he was halfway right.  Now “little” Marge
was a grown woman, married  to a wealthy New York attorney and sitting at  the foot of her daddy’s
hospital bed. Nurse thought it ironic that at  that very moment, she, an imposter, was gambling away
money that Marge’s own husband had earned. Pretty  soon, two hours had vanished, as had the bucket
of coins.  Nurse plunked the last  few tokens in the  bandit, then, mission accomplished,  stood and
wandered over to the blackjack table, where Cap’n was parked. Having settled his nerves by downing
three large  sodas, he’d  watched the  gamblers come and  go, some  walking away  winners, others,
losers. In time, he’d not only become versed in  the game, but immersed in it. Now he was prepared
to play for keeps. Placing his bet without a word,  he waited for Nurse to lay down hers. Game after
game,

THE IDENTITY CHECK

371

the two reluctant leading actors played out their  roles. Each time she wanted another card, she’d
tap the table with her fingers. On one occasion, when Nurse won a sizeable amount of cash, Sound got
a little too  carried away, letting out a  euphoric whoop. Still, gambling is  gambling; it didn’t
take nearly as long to  lose the thousand dollars in chips as it did  the tokens. As Cap’n dropped
the last of  his own chips on  the table, Nurse and Sound  walked over to the  teller’s window and
cashed out, returning the last of the chips, collecting  a second pile of cash, and hailed a cab. In
the safety of the back  seat, Sound took a small pad of paper from his  pocket and jotted down their
take: nine-thousand and change–LasVegas Hilton. Back at  the casino, Cap’n made a second trip to
the restroom–this time for legitimate reasons–then hailed a cab of his own to follow the leader.

The soup  kitchen was closed until  5:00–or so said  the sign on  the door. Greg paced  out front,
trying to decide if he should ring the bell or just wait it out.

“I’m first in line,” said a lone, rather ornery  woman, who at first had appeared to be asleep
in the  shade of the front  steps. “I’m savin’ places  for my friends, too,”  she added, her
nasal rumblings charged with mistrust.

“Oh–I’m not looking to eat,” Greg apologized.

“Then go  ‘round back. Reverend’s  in the kitchen,”  she said, pointing  to the side  of the
building. Greg disappeared  around the corner and  peeked through the open window.  Inside the noisy
kitchen, Cook,  his back to the  door, held a  giant potato masher  in his thick fist,  smashing the
‘hard’ right out  of a giant pot  of spuds. The hot,  moist air that escaped  through the window
screen clashed against the  dry desert breeze that fluttered in the  narrow, dead-end service alley.
The clatter of chairs being  set up echoed from the opposite doorway. Greg  climbed the two steps to
the landing  and rapped  his knuckles on  the metal door  frame. Cook  reeled around like  a wounded
soldier, his masher cocked and ready to fire.

“Doors open at five!” he barked. “Go wait up front!”

“I–uh . . .” Greg stuttered.

“You heard me–wait up front.” Cook started for the door. His masher whipped menacingly through
the air, sending fragments of Idaho’s best across the room.

Greg backed off the steps, ready to bolt. “Sunny,” came the reverend’s 372 KEN MERRELL

voice. “I’ve been  hoping you’d stop by.” Like  a spent wind-up toy, Cook  halted his attack
and returned  to his  riotous assault  on the helpless  spuds. Reverend  Keller chugged  through the
kitchen  and extended  a hand,  lifting Greg  back  onto the  landing. “Don’t  mind Cook,”  he
chuckled, scarcely lowering  his voice. “He’s got a good  heart. Just has to warm up  to you, is
all.” His arm extended  across his guest’s back. His short legs doing  doubletime, he urged Greg
inside. “I’ve heard some things,” he said, his  warm smile fading slightly. “You and some of
my friends are in a pile of trouble.”

Greg turned sharply to face the man. “What’ve you heard?”

“Two FBI agents came by this morning. Smitty led them here in order to ditch them.”

“Behind that dumb exterior, the guy’s a fox, isn’t he?”

“I’d say he’s gifted in some areas and not so gifted in others. Regardless, he’s as innocent
as a child.”

“How much do the agents know?”

“Enough to get some  people hurt.” Reverend Keller paused. “You’re  playing a dangerous game
against a powerful man.”

“Vinnie?”

The reverend  shook his  head. “With a  little help,  Nurse can handle  Vinnie Domenico.  He’s a
coward that hides  behind the skirts of fear and  intimidation. He’ll be easy to tumble.  . . . Of
course, you’ve already found that out, haven’t you?”

Greg nodded.  “Smitty and  another friend  were mostly  responsible. They  left Vinnie  talking to
himself.”

“Yeah, they  did a  fine job.  . .  . No, Vinnie’s  small potatoes.  But this  other guy–well,
you’re flirting  with danger messing  with him, but  it seems you  and your friends  really ticked
Vinnie off.  He put a price  on your heads–over  a hundred grand.  A man that’s used  to keeping
others in total submission can’t rule when someone takes the legs out from under him. And that’s
what your friend did.”

“A hundred grand?”

The reverend nodded, then added,  “I know one old woman who’d give the rags  off her own back to
keep a soul worth saving out of trouble. That tells me that your friend must be worth the hassle.”

“She already did that,” Greg said, flashing an embarrassed smile.

“–clear to the boxer shorts.”

As Greg  recited the dramatic love  scene that had  played out in  the alley between him  and Nurse,
great gusts of laughter echoed out into the still

THE IDENTITY CHECK

373

empty mess hall.

374 KEN MERRELL

FORTY-TWO

THE OLD AUDI LOOKED STRANGELY in place, parked

under the abandoned canopy  of Three Queens. So did its driver-gambler. Bino  sucked the last bit of
smoke from  his cigarette and  dropped the butt  on the  asphalt, crushing it  with the sole  of his
loafer. He peered  across Bridger to the cream sedan  parked at the curb, its driver  focused on his
every move. One lone guard  stood inside the vacant casino. He unlocked the  glass entry door to let
Bino inside.

Locking the door once more, the guard, without so much as a word, ran his hands up and down Bino’s
slender frame to check for anything resembling a threat  to the big man on the 13th floor. “Middle
elevator,” he muttered upon completing his search. Bino made his way across the dormant lobby, his
oxygen cart  in tow. At the  elevator, he pressed a  nicotine-stained finger on the  call button and
drew a fresh  cigarette from his shirt  pocket. By the time  the elevator doors opened  to the upper
level, half of  the stick had gone up in  smoke, gray clouds that billowed from  the car. Vinnie’s
cloistered figure slumped behind the massive desk. His back was to the elevator. The room’s blinds
were drawn tight, the faint shadows a better medium for the wise guy to stare at the empty screen of
his desktop monitor. Turning,  he reached into his desk drawer and tossed  a Polaroid photo onto the
floor at Bino’s feet. “Cute girl,” he said as he propped his feet up.

Bino bent  down and picked up  the picture. Behind  its glossy surface  was the image of  his little
girl, taped to a chair.  Her face was streaked with tears, her pajamas wet  from the waist down. The
gambler swallowed hard  and clenched his jaw.  Then, tempting fate, he  dropped his still-smoldering
butt on the white carpet and crushed it out. “The kid’s wife

. . . visits the Heritage . . . Care Center on  . . . Friday nights. . . . She hasn’t been to work
. . . all week.”

“Good boy,” Vinnie sneered triumphantly. “I’ll give you a bone and

THE IDENTITY CHECK

375

let her live another day.”

Like a  whipped dog, Bino  turned and hightailed  it to  the elevator. When  it hit bottom  and Bino
bolted from  the car, a  squatty man in  a wrinkled suit  stood waiting to  enter. He passed  with a
casual, “Good day, mate,” and disappeared behind the shutting doors.

The guard unlocked the  glass doors and motioned Vinnie’s distraught visitor  out onto the street.
As Bino  steered the smoky  Audi onto Bridger,  the cream sedan  tailed close behind.  The washed-up
gambler slowed to a stop  at 3rd, yanked the photo from his shirt pocket, took  one last look at his
poor, sweet  Angelina, and flung  it out the  window. The light  turned green, the  restless traffic
pressed forward. The miserable photograph, tossed to the  wind, fluttered about in the middle of the
crosswalk. Cook had brought two  plates of food into the back office and  was now shouting orders to
the vanishing crowd. “You!” Greg could hear him snarl.

“And you!”  He could picture Cook’s  spoon shaking at  a cowering, disheveled diner  trying to
shovel the last of his potatoes in his mouth. It seems if you didn’t make it out the door in time,
you’d just volunteered for clean-up duty.

“I take what the Good  Lord gives me,” the reverend said, referring to  his crusty chef. He slid
open the desk drawer and pulled out a business card. “But they still come to eat.”

Greg stacked his plate on top of the reverend’s. “He’s a good cook,”

he said appreciatively.

Reverend Keller leaned forward and took in a deep breath. “I think what you’re doing might work,
but if you want my help I need to give the Feds a token so they’ll believe what I tell them.”

“Agreed.” Greg fidgeted with the forks atop  the food-spotted plates. The retired plumber leaned
back in his chair and stroked his chin. It was as though he could see into Greg’s fractured heart.
“That’s not the reason you came to see me, though, is it?”

Greg started to get up. “You’ve already done enough . . .”

“Please,”  said Reverend  Keller. “The  temporal help  is just  that–only temporary.  If you
don’t work  out the  other problems–the  mental, the emotional,  the spiritual–the  cycle will
start all  over again. I see  it everyday. Most  of the people who  come here can’t or  won’t be
helped.” Greg sank back in his seat. “You miss her, don’t you?” he asked, point-blank.

“I’ve caused more heartache to my family and friends than I can ever 376 KEN MERRELL

undo.”

“I’m sure you feel that way. In fact, I read the letter you started to write.”

Greg looked up,  perplexed. “I retrieved it. And,  with your permission, of course,  I’d like to
send it to your wife. I’d enclose a letter of my own. . . .”

The room  grew quiet.  Only the rattle  and clank  of pots  and pans pealed  in the  background. The
recollection of his  heartfelt apology stroked the  corners of Greg’s mind. “Have  you ever been
able to tell her those things in person?”

Greg  shook his  head. “She  was always  too angry  to listen,  and I  was always  too proud,  too
bullheaded.”

“Sometimes a little  distance and time can jumpstart  the healing of even the  biggest wound. When
someone becomes so mad at  what you’ve done to her, it shows she still  cares. It could be because
she still loves you as much as you do her.”

Greg lowered his head, contemplating the matter.

“Hey, it  couldn’t hurt–and  it could  help,” the  reverend added.  “If there’s  hope of
patching things up, it’s a good place to start.”

Hard-pressed to argue with that kind of logic, Greg struggled for something to say. “Thank you,”
is what came out. He  felt a soft tingling in his scalp–perhaps the sign of  a new glimmer of hope
sprouting in his own desperate mind and heart.

“You’re welcome. .  . . Now let’s help Cook  clean up and I’ll give you  and your guest that
ride we’ve been talking about.”

Smitty  lay on  the  park bench,  sound  asleep. His  leg  twitched occasionally,  the  dreams of  a
street-mutt. Smitty, though, was more like a street-smart puppy, innocent yet still wise to the ways
of the street. And the pup had already learned  well the art of chasing cats: Never get close enough
to get scratched and always get the cat on the run before giving chase.

The agents  had grown tired of  his childlike games. Something  had to give–or they’d  go crazy.
He’d out-dueled  them in  the park, in  the soup  kitchen, and in  general. They’d  visited with
Barnes to complain, and to explain that the mute was less than cognizant of his surroundings. Barnes
finally had agreed to  call off the chase, perhaps to  pick it up at a later  hour. Their mark could
easily be  pinpointed again,  electronically, since  the chip  was still  secure in  Smitty’s back
pocket.

A half block from the apartment, Mitch also lay on a bus-stop bench,

THE IDENTITY CHECK

377

surveying from  under his  sweaty baseball cap  the comings  and goings of  the various  tenants and
visitors to  and from their  apartment building.  He fidgeted nervously  with each new  arrival. The
thought of recovering his GTO

had invigorated him, had provided a brief shot of life to the lazy afternoon. Trusting Bino’s word
was the  risky part. If  the warehouse was  where he said  it was, the  goat’s rescue would  be as
simple as getting in–which was no longer that simple.

With Smitty  still at  large, the  risk was  still too great  for the  Alley Team  to remain  at the
apartment. If  the mute  was followed back  home, all who  were there  would be taken  into custody.
What’s more, Mike’s body  again needed to be moved–and soon. The dry  ice was almost gone; and
the layers of blankets didn’t help anyone in the apartment keep their cool, except Mike.

Nurse,  Cap’n  and  Sound, meanwhile,  were  working  their  third  casino, wielding  their  third
fraudulent credit  card. Cap’n  had stashed over  sixteenthousand in bills  in his  briefcase. The
little  gang kept  up the  appearance of  being regular,  pleasure-seeking gamblers,  dropping small
change in the slots and acting out the suitable win or lose response. In fact, they’d become quite
adept at walking away with hardly a shrug when  one of the onearmed bandits took their coins. By now
at County  Hospital, Grandpa’s  festering gruff  and grumble had  given his  caretakers a  case of
burnout. Of  course, his lack of  supplemental insurance was  a contributing factor in  his imminent
discharge. The treaty included the compromise that he’d  stay one more night in the hospital, then
that he would let an in-home nurse come to his  home for the first several days until he was back on
his feet. Despite the complications it might cause and the already overburdened state it was in, the
agency agreed to  assign their own male nurse to  the job. And in a secure  location in the suburbs,
Agent Sutton had successfully cleared Stephanie and  Maggie to make their regular Friday night visit
to Heritage Care. Though  reluctant, Barnes had finally approved a two-hour visit  for the next day.
Both women  were elated. Unable to  go anywhere for an  entire day, the safe-house  was beginning to
feel more like a prison.

Of all the players in this tangled Vegas floor  show, it was Ritter who considered himself its star.
After standing for a full 15 minutes, waiting to be whisked up to the 13th-floor penthouse, he found
himself between a rock and an even bigger stone–namely, smack dab in the 378 KEN MERRELL

middle of Frankie  and Vinnie. All three men  stood peering out the window. Ritter  coolly turned to
his host and said, “I been followed mate. Looks like you got a few on your doorstep, too.”

Vinnie cussed, gulped the last  of a drink he held in his hand, then launched  a rage bordering on a
temper tantrum. “You think I don’t know that! I  been cooped up by a punk kid, my hotel’s shut
down, my car’s stolen, and he’s out there laughin’ at me. . . . He’s gotta pay, or I won’t
have an ounce a’

respect left.”

“Maybe I can help,” Ritter said with a smirk. “You’re the man, an’

you already set it up, if I seen it right. Let’s say I give the Feds Agent Hales’

body and you give ‘em the gun, then the whole thing might just take a trip. Evidence shows up from
two different sources, they’ll stop lookin’ at you and concentrate on the kid.”

Vinnie sank into  the couch and propped his  feet on the coffee table. His  turbulent three-day rant
had not only taken its toll on his psyche, but  had blown his initial plan way off track. “Yeah. .
. . You’re pretty smart, Ritter. That’s what I had in mind all along.” A wicked grin slid down
Vinnie’s face and rested comfortably on his lips.

“There’s just one thing,” Ritter said as an aside, “th’ matter of me compensation?”

Vinnie shrugged his shoulders. “What’d you have in mind?”

“You wire fifty-grand to me bank, Selby in Yorkshire. It’s called Midland Bank.”

Vinnie swore again. “You think I’m stupid, givin’ you the money before I got the goods?”

Ritter shook his head like a ruddy schoolmarm in front of a child.

“Don’t ya’ see,  mate, ya’ got me. I ain’t  about to run. If I don’t  give up the goods,
you still got me ‘til I do. Just buy me a ticket and put me on the plane when we finish.”

Vinnie plucked a bottle from off his desk and poured himself another shot of whiskey. “What do you
think, Frankie?”  he asked, turning to  his silent partner. “Could  you break his arms  and legs
without killin’ him if he doesn’t keep his end of the deal?”

“Whatever you  say, Vinnie,”  Frankie mumbled as  he cracked  his knuckles and  ran a  huge hand
across his short-cropped hair. Ritter swallowed. Deep down,  a sharp pain shot through his chest and
twisted knots  inside his  gut. “Why don’t  you give  me the  gun and I’ll  stash it  with the
body?”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

379

Vinnie burst out laughing, then gulped down another drink. “Over my dead body.”

“Just figurin’ you might want to keep a might clear a’ the whole mess . . .”

“Listen,” said Vinnie, in a tone suggesting their conversation was over,

“I’ll wire your money in the morning. Then you’ll show me where the body is.”

“What ‘bout our friends out front?”

“I’ll worry  about them.  Now you run  along and  find yourself a  room–have a  good night’s
sleep.”

Cheers!” Ritter turned and stepped into the elevator. Once its doors had shut, he reached over and
inconspicuously pushed the button  to the 3rd floor. He wasn’t quite done  with his visit to Three
Queens. With  the Englishman  out of  the way,  up in  the penthouse  Vinnie poured  himself another
whiskey and sat down to consider his options. Finally he uttered the verdict: “I’ll kill him and
leave his body with  Mikey-the-cop’s rotting carcass. A double murder–what  could be better? And
the kid’ll get a five-year bonus for stealin’ my car.”

Frankie gave a chuckle. “Good idea, Vinnie. You show him. . . .”

“Thanks for the ride, Reverend,” Greg said,” and for all your help.”

They shook hands through the van window.

“You better call me Bart. I think I’ve  already stepped way outside the mantle of my calling.”
The reverend took a glimpse at the bigscreen box  tucked in the back of the van, dry-ice smoke still
falling from the bottom most cracks.

Greg seemed a bit chagrined. “I’d totally understand if you’ve changed your mind.”

“No,” the reverend said, waving him away. “I’ll  take good care of your cargo. Consider this
my part of the neighborhood cleanup.” He turned over the ignition. “Besides, I haven’t watched
the tube in years.”

Both men smiled. “I’ll send the letter to your wife  in the morning. And Cook and I will do some
work on my  old refrigerator-freezer tonight–sort of empty  it out. I think it’s  about to break
down.”

Reverend Keller pulled  from the parking lot just  as Smitty came walking up the  sidewalk. The mute
smiled and waved proudly as the van rounded the corner and disappeared.

Greg scanned the street. There was no one else around. Still, Smitty 380 KEN MERRELL

might have  been followed. “You  okay?” he  asked. Smitty merely  sauntered up to  the apartment
door, nodded, and flailed his arms behind him as if to say, Can’t you see I’m alone?

“We’ve got to get you out of sight. You don’t think you were followed?”

Smitty shook his head.

“Come on. Lightning’s  packing up our things as  we speak. We’re moving out. The  place is too
hot.” As the slow-moving  elevator made its way up to the building’s  5th floor, Smitty tried to
explain how  he’d eluded the agents  in the park with  his childish antics. Greg,  however, was so
concerned with being nailed that he didn’t pay much attention. A sick feeling washed over him; the
pit of his stomach  felt like it was filled with  cold lead. He led Smitty out  of the elevator car,
shoved the key in  the door, and jostled him inside. “Lightning,  Smitty’s back,” he hollered.
Mitch strode from the bathroom, carrying the last of the toiletries. He hurried over to the tattered
couch and dropped  them in a bag. The  grin on his face  was as big as Smitty’s.  “Hey, guy, you
made it!” He seized the mute by the shoulders and gave him a shake.

Smitty nodded enthusiastically.

“Were you followed?” Suddenly the same surge of alarm came over Mitch.

Smitty shook his head.

Greg leapt to  the window and peered  down through the blinds.  “I don’t see anybody  out of the
ordinary,” he said under  his breath. Mitch tossed Smitty a change of  clothes. “Here, put these
on,” he urged. “And make it quick.”

The mute immediately kicked off his shoes and  jerked down his suspenders, yanking the pants off his
gangly legs. As  the trousers hit the carpet, so  did the dime-size chip he’d carried  in his back
pocket. He paused and stared down at the odd-looking  coin, a little larger than a dime. Curious, he
picked it up.

Mitch was already at the door, ready to leave. “What’re you doing, Smitty? We’ve gotta go.”

“Greg turned from the  window and eyed the strange object Smitty was  holding between his fingers.
“What’s that?”

Smitty hunched his  shoulders and pointed to the  pants pocket. Greg hurled himself  across the room
and snatched the  trinket from Smitty’s grasp. Giving  it a hard stare, he used  his fingernail to
peel the plastic coating from its surface. “It’s a computer chip!” he said with a gasp.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

381

Mitch swung the door closed and snatched  the miniature transmitter from Greg’s outstretched palm,
turning it side to side.  Greg lunged back to the window, then exclaimed,  “We’ve got a van down
in the lot! It’s got some sort of retriever dish on the roof.”

“Blast!” bellowed  Mitch as he scurried  toward the bathroom.  Smitty began to dance  around the
floor in a mad struggle to pull on the other pair of pants.

Still at the window, Greg kept up his play-by-play narrative. “Two guys are climbing from the van.
They’re holding an antenna . . .”

Inside the bathroom  the toilet flushed. Mitch watched  the water rise in the bowl,  then swirl down
through the  porcelain throat and gush  down four stories of  pipes. He couldn’t believe  his eyes
when he saw the tumbling chip sink back to the bottom of the bowl. It wouldn’t flush!

“They’re coming inside!” called Greg. “What should we do?”

With a  loud splash,  Mitch plunged his  hand down into  the toilet  bowl. Sweeping wildly  with his
fingers, he felt for the pesky little chip. “I can’t reach it!” he hollered.

Greg rushed into  the room. “Let me try.” He,  too, tried to squeeze his fingers  into the small
opening. “I can’t either!”

Smitty peered into  the room. Dropping his  leather bag of tools on  the floor, he took  out a small
mechanical cable. “Good job, Smitty,”

Mitch said as  he yanked the pronged device free  and inserted it into the stained  commode. Using a
backward motion, he churned at the brackish water. “There . . . I think I got it.”

Greg scrounged through the bag of toiletries and pulled out a roll of toilet paper. “Here, wrap it
up.”

Mitch lifted the  tiny gadget from the  toilet and ran paper  around it in both  directions. Then he
pulled the flush lever and tossed the little snitch back into the swirling water. “It won’t take
long,” he said, “for them to figure out what we did.”

“You check the door, I’ll catch the window,” Greg said, racing back to the closed blinds.

Mitch cracked the  door and eyed the elevator call  button. The bell rang and Mitch  pushed the door
shut and bolted  the lock. Pressing his ear to  the door, he listened to the  voices in the hallway.
“He’s moving again,” he heard one of them say.

“Where to?”

“He must’ve used the stairs; he’s headed down.”

382 KEN MERRELL

“Don’t lose him!” one of the men said. “You take the stairs, I’ll get the elevator.”

Mitch turned  to Greg. In a  whisper, he said,  “I figure we’ve got  a couple of minutes  to get
out.” He heard the  elevator doors shut. “As soon as they find  their smart little stool pigeon,
they’ll be back, asking lots of questions.”

By this time  Smitty had pulled on his laceless  work boots and was tugging his  pant legs down over
the tops. He began to strap his pouch to his waist, when he heard Greg ask, “You have the cash?”
Thinking the  question was directed  at him, he  wagged his head. Mitch  held up a  single suitcase.
“Got it,” he said, shaking its contents. “Everything else stays.”

“Agreed.”  Greg let  his  peephole crack  in  the blinds  close. “They’re  back  out on  the
street.”

“Let’s take the  stairs.” The three men crept out  of the apartment and down the  hall. By the
time they reached the 3rd floor, one of the agents’

voices was again heard  coming up the stairwell, hollering into his  radio. “Send back-up. We’ll
stop on every floor. He can’t get past. . . .”

The men scrambled from the stairwell into the hallway and Mitch rapped on the first door he came to.
After a few seconds of quiet, Smitty pulled his pick set from his pouch and inserted it in the lock,
jiggled it around, and popped it open. The  three men cowered inside. The sound of flowing bathwater
came from inside a second door.

“Honey, is that you?” a woman’s voice echoed from the bathroom. The water turned off.

Three faces glowered  in the direction of  the door; the tension in  the air almost cried  out to be
heard. Mitch locked  the outside door and motioned  the others down the hallway  toward the bedroom.
Just as  they passed the bathroom  door, it opened. “Honey,  you home?” the woman  called again.
Once more the bathroom door closed. Greg skulked the rest of the way into the bedroom and parted the
curtain that looked  out over the parking  lot. “We’ve got another car,”  he whispered. “And
two more men.”

Smitty squinched up his eyes, as if trying to make the whole thing go away.

“They’ll know our apartment number in a few minutes,” replied Mitch. “Maybe we can still get
past. Here’s an idea.  If we can get down to  the 2nd floor and get into a  back apartment, we can
drop from the

THE IDENTITY CHECK

383

deck and take off. There are only four agents to get past.”

Greg nodded his assent. “If we wait too long there’ll be thirty.”

Smitty opened his eyes and pointed a finger at his chest, then stuck it up to his throat like he was
cutting it with a knife.

“It’s okay, Smitty. You didn’t know you were bugged,” Mitch whispered. Smitty shook his head
and thrust his arms forward  as if they were cuffed. He again pointed at his  chest, and then at the
door.

“You want to give yourself up?” asked Mitch.

The mute gave a nod.

This time it was  Mitch who shook his head. “No way;  I need you. Bino told me where  my car is. I
need you to come help me get it back.”

Greg held  up a finger. “One  of us getting caught,  though–it’s not a bad  idea,” he mused.
“But this time it’s my turn. I’ll refuse to talk and get a lawyer.”

“No!” Mitch pleaded. “We can get out.”

Determined, Greg headed for the apartment door.  “My part’s finished. With a little luck, I’ll
see you in a couple  of days. Give me two minutes–I’ll draw them out  to the parking lot.” The
door closed behind  him. Greg made his way  back to the stairwell and started  down. Halfway between
the first and second floors, he casually nodded at an agent flashing past him up the stairs. “Good
afternoon,” he smiled, and continued on down. The  agent marched up three more steps, then stopped
short and  took a folded paper  from his pocket.  Opening it, he  stared at two images:  a thumbnail
sketch and an old photo. “I’ve got Hart in the stairs!”

he shouted into his radio. “He’s headed for the main floor.”

The thundering of footsteps  sounded from below. Shouts to “stop–lay  face-down on the ground”
followed. Apartment doors opened; curious tenants peeked out into the hallway. Mitch, putting on his
best look  of bewilderment, motioned to  Smitty and they, too,  stuck their heads out  the apartment
door. Then, pulling Smitty along, he rushed down the stairs to the 2nd floor. Smitty crouched behind
his hero and fumbled with the lock to

#205. Just then  the door to #207  opened, and a man  poked his head into  the corridor. “What’s
going on?” he asked.

Mitch tilted his  head in the direction of the  parking lot. “The cops just arrested  some guy out
front  for  kidnapping. They  sent  us  inside.  Two others  are  on  the  loose, somewhere  in  the
building.” This time he intention-384 KEN MERRELL

ally  put on  some  not-very-convincing airs.  He  spoke in  a  rattled tone  and  smeared a  funny,
cartoonish smile on his face.  With any luck the guy knew his neighbor and  would figure out that he
and Smitty were the ‘loose’ one of whom he  spoke. But it didn’t matter. In three more minutes
they’d be over the back  fence and picking the lock to one of the  neighbor’s cars. From then on
the  cops would  be  turning an  apartment  inside out,  trying  to ferret  out  two more  dangerous
fugitives, only to come up empty handed.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

385

FORTY-THREE

NURSE COLLAPSED INTO  BED, EXHAUSTED. It was just  past midnight. The elegant 8th-floor  room at the
Palace  Hotel and  Casino had  a  connecting door  leading  into Sound’s  adjacent room.  Cap’n,
entering the hotel some minutes after them, had landed  a room on the 11th floor. Behind a drawn set
of luxurious  curtains, a big picture  window overlooked the  Strip. After putting away  his things,
Cap’n took the elevator  to the 8th floor, hesitantly made his way  down the corridor to Nurse’s
room, and knocked. Nurse gaped through the door at  the dark, brooding eyes on the other side of the
peephole. She opened the door and shooed him inside.

“What th’ crup ya’ doin’, Cap’n?”

The man’s  pained expression darkened even  more. “I figured  we better count the  cash. Don’t
feel good holdin’ all this money, you know?”

Nurse waved him away with a weary hand. “Ain’t nobody I’d rather have hold it. Now . . .”

At that moment Sound came through the adjoining  door, wrapped in a white terrycloth robe and drying
his thin crop  of hair with a fluffy bath  towel. “Oh, hi, Cap’n,” he greeted.  “We did real
good today. By my calculations we took in over  a hundred-grand.” Like Nurse, he too was feeling a
bit flushed from the long day. Over and above that, his ribs were more than a bit sore where Cap’n
had elbowed him the day before. He was having trouble breathing.

Cap’n persisted, “Well I’d like to count it.”

“Ya’ knows they got cameras in th’ hallways,” Nurse admonished.

“Somebody mighta’ seen ya’ come t’ my room.”

“Did you take any money out?” asked Sound, pondering his own agenda.

“No, but I ain’t never  seen this much money in one place in  all my life,” Cap’n whimpered.
“It makes me feel like runnin’ away.”

386 KEN MERRELL

“Man, you don’t run from nothin’,” exclaimed Nurse. “But if’n you’d feel better, ya’
can sleep in my extra bed.”

Cap’n expelled a heavy  sigh and went to put the  briefcase he held under his arm  on the chest of
drawers. He  paused a moment  to let Nurse  transfer her  dentures from the  cabinet top to  the top
drawer. “How much more do we need?” he queried.

“Eddie said the cards were good for a quarter-of-a-million,” Sound said.

Cap’n gave a  noiseless whistle and, digging a  napkin from his back pocket, wiped  the sweat from
his shiny head.  “I ain’t sure I  can take it that  long,” he sighed. “I  ain’t been under
this kinda pressure in forty years.”

Nurse pulled her dress up over her head and lay it at the foot of the bed.

“I ain’t got no pj’s, so you boys’ll just hafta’ put up with me in a slip.”

Sliding a hanger through the  gossamer fabric, she hung it in the closet and  crawled into bed for a
second time that night. “Now you two stop flappin’

your jaws so’s I can get some rest.”

Sound retreated to  his own room and Cap’n stripped  down to his briefs. By the  time his head had
hit  the pillow,  the  whistling air  coursing  through  Nurse’s crooked  nose  was singing  sweet
lullabies, music that indeed soothed the savage worries in the big man’s breast.

Clint’s blue sports car sat out in front  of the large warehouse, located in the business district
just off Craig. A ways down the street, the car Mitch had stolen was tucked squarely behind a row of
garbage trucks  lined up tightly  against the building.  They would most  likely start off  on their
appointed routes  a little before  dawn. Mitch could  imagine the cussing  and carrying on  of their
drivers when they  showed up to work to find  their trucks blocked in. Then, once  the nature of the
bothersome car was revealed, first  the police would be called in and then the  FBI would show up to
take prints. By the end  of the day, all of them would be scratching  their heads, wondering why the
auto had been left in such an unusual spot.

“Bino told me the  truth for a change,” Mitch whispered. “That  blue one’s Clint’s car.”
Smitty didn’t need to be told. He’d seen the sleek convertible at the gym on many occasions.

The warehouse had but a  single outside lock. The only way in or out was  at the main entrance, near
where Clint’s car was parked. After

THE IDENTITY CHECK

387

ditching the  stolen car in the  most conspicuous spot, both  men had circled the  building like two
Indian braves, and now were slumped up against the neighboring building, awaiting their chance.

An old  Dodge with  blackened windows was  parked next to  the blue  ragtop. Mitch moseyed  over and
casually placed a  hand on the hood  of each car. “Clint’s  is still hot; he  hasn’t been here
long,” he said. “But this old piece of junk hasn’t moved since last night.”

Smitty,  feeling the  scalding air  pour out  from under  the Vette’s  hood, raised  his eyebrows,
obviously impressed by Mitch’s deductive powers. The  apprentice sleuth stuck his nose down by the
front of the engine and sniffed in the hot air. Then he did the same with the older car.

Mitch  scanned the  warehouse’s deserted  perimeter. “It  looks like  we’ll have  to go  right
through the front door.” Smitty plucked his tools from his belt and the two of them stepped to the
dimly lit doorway, then paused as they stared at the coded keypad on the lock. “Er . . . and maybe
not.”

Unable to gain entrance  into the building, Smitty turned his attention on  the Dodge. A scant three
minutes later, he  was curled up asleep in its  back seat while Mitch lay in  the reclined passenger
seat. They’d  discussed a  simple plan of  action for  when the car’s  owner climbed  behind the
wheel. Mitch struggled to stay awake as the hours ticked slowly by: 1:20 . . . 2:09 . . . 2:14 . . .
. Smitty tossed and turned in back, occasionally twitching  an arm or a leg. By three a.m. Mitch had
started to get nervous. The day’s first vehicles arrived on the lifeless, dead-end street, pulling
into the parking  lot of the waste management  business next door. The drivers would  stop for their
morning coffee  and then be ready  to hustle their massive  garbageeating trucks out onto  the Vegas
streets. He sat  up and reached for the door  handle, when suddenly the front door  to the warehouse
clicked open.  Clint stepped out into  the semi-cool early-morning air  and dusted a light  spray of
shredded paper shavings  from his tight-fitting jeans.  Careful to remain out of  sight, Mitch eased
his seat once  more into the recline position.  From behind him, Smitty stirred,  then stretched his
gangly arms into the air, striking the back window with his hands. Mitch reached back and coaxed the
flailing arms down. “Shh,”  he cautioned. Smitty’s eyes blinked hard as  he struggled to rouse
from his  stupor. Thirty seconds  after Clint came  out, a second man,  sporting a straggly  mane of
hair, stalked from the building. He removed a pair of reading glasses from his face and stuffed them
in his pocket. The two men had been clash-388 KEN MERRELL

ing, it was  clear, their feud spilling out  onto the dock. Now they exchanged  several more pungent
words. Clint slammed shut the warehouse door and set  the code. The ex-fighter was first to climb in
his car. Gunning  its powerful engine and thrusting  it in first gear, the sporty  coupe peeled from
the parking lot.  In contrast to his  hotheaded companion, the other  man was in no  hurry to leave.
Lingering in the shadows, he lit up a cigarette. Mitch waited as the man took a number of long drags
on the smoke. Finally, he  pulled his keys from his pants pocket. But instead  of coming to the car,
he turned back to the  warehouse and reached down into one of the garbage  cans near the front door.
After sifting through  its contents, he finally came up  holding what looked like a shoe  box in his
hand. He  peered back and forth  in the darkness,  then strolled over  to the Dodge. Smitty  eased a
ratchet from his pouch and slouched to the floor behind the driver’s seat.

Mitch, after taking  in a deep breath  to calm his nerves,  lay stockstill in the  darkness. The car
door opened  and the man slid  inside. Smitty sprang up  from behind and pressed  the ratchet handle
against the back  of the man’s stork-like neck.  “If you don’t want your  brains splattered on
the windshield, do exactly as I tell you,” Mitch said in his most menacing voice.

The man was an easy mark. “Clint told me to do it,” he yammered.

“Put both  hands on the wheel.”  The man did as  ordered. Sliding the box  from the sniveler’s
lap, Mitch opened its lid and peered inside.

“You’re going to open the door now and get us inside.”

“I–I don’t know the code.”

“Just shoot him,  Smitty, and we’ll crash the  car through the garage door.”  Mitch opened his
door and climbed from the vehicle, still holding the box.

“Okay, okay, I’ll get you in,” said the man.  He cautiously got out of the car, with Smitty on
his heels.

“What’s your name?” Mitch demanded.

“Ivan . . . Ivan Lions.”

“Well, Ivan, it looks to me you’ve got enough information here to sink the ship.”

“Life insurance.”

“Right. Insurance. . . . Say, Ivan, you scared?”

“You aren’t?” Ivan punched in the code on the lock.

“Nah, Vinnie’s a pussycat. I’m the guy to be afraid of–the one who shut

THE IDENTITY CHECK

389

him down.

Ivan flicked  on the lights and  turned his head to  address his principal captor.  “Been hopin’
I’d meet you.  I heard Vinnie’s got  a price on you.” He  went to remove the  glasses from his
shirt pocket. Smitty  jammed the wrench deeper  into the scrawny back. “Easy,  bud, I’m unarmed.
I’m just the talent. I hate the violent crap.”

The man  was in his  early 50s, with hair  that looked as  if he’d just  crawled out of bed  and a
wrinkled wardrobe to match.  His eyes were swollen and drowsy-looking.  At Mitch’s request, Smitty
ran his hands up and down the man’s body to check for a weapon.

“What do you do for Vinnie?” Mitch continued.

“Nothing,  anymore. Just  officially closed  up  shop.” It  appeared that  Ivan’s nerves  were
beginning to mellow.

The men stepped  from the small foyer into a  room piled deep in shredded paper.  Rows of empty file
cabinets,  their drawers  half open,  lined the  wall. Computers  lay among  the debris,  smashed to
pieces. Smitty  turned and  stared through a  window, where  there were piled  an assortment  of new
appliances, home  entertainment systems, electronic  equipment, and  furniture, most still  in their
boxes.

“Looks like the operation under Eddie’s gym I heard about,” Mitch said.

“I told Clint we should’ve shut it down six months ago. Ran too long.”

Mitch walked  into the warehouse  and flipped on  the lights. The blue  glow of the  halogens slowly
illuminated the room.  The warm reflection of the  gold GTO, parked snugly in  one corner, quickened
Mitch’s pulse and warmed his heart. Smitty lowered his wrench and smiled a wide, cheesy grin as he
glanced between Mitch and the golden prize.

“She’s a beauty,” Ivan said. “I’d have taken  her with me, if I thought you’d leave well
enough alone. But I reckoned that within a few days that car would be hotter than Hades.”

“Mike’s life wasn’t worth it,” Mitch said, “but I’m still glad to have it back.”

Ivan reached out expectantly. “If you’ll give me my box now, I’ll be on my way.”

“I don’t think so,” Mitch smiled. “It’s time these people got their lives back–just like
me.”

390 KEN MERRELL

A strangely relaxed camaraderie had hedged itself between Mitch and Ivan over the brief, five-minute
stretch. Ivan  gauged Mitch,  admiringly. “I’m  no saint  like you,  kid. But  I have  to admit,
it’ll be  fun watchin’ the headlines.  A couple of days’  head start, I figure  maybe two more
years until the laws put me out of business. But if I play my cards right, I can still retire like a
king.”

“Not in this town, I hope.”

“You kiddin’? Have you seen the news reports?”

“Can’t say I have.”

“Roy nailed the senator, the governor and two of your congressmen. I’ll be as far away from here
as I can get.” Ivan punched the button on the overhead door.

“Roy?” Mitch asked.

“Some  loser used  to work  for me.  With what  you’ve got  in that  box, Mr.  Domenico will  be
wishin’ he’d never met  you.” Ivan ducked under the door, then stuck  his head back inside and
said, “And next time, use an extension instead of a ratchet. It makes a better gun barrel.”

Outside, the  old Dodge  disappeared into the  early-morning shadows, its  driver hiding  behind the
smoked-glass windows  and still carrying  enough false  identification to buy  his way to  a 20-year
prison term. Mitch sank into  the familiar seat of the GTO and pumped the  gas. “You ever driven a
car before?” he asked Smitty, who was fidgeting  expectantly in the passenger seat. The mute shook
his head. “If we get through this in one piece, I’ll teach you.”

Smitty  fondled the  dashboard, running  his fingers  along the  smooth curves.  Mitch fired  up the
monstrous engine. It roared to life, sucking air  through the triple carburetors extending up out of
the hood. “It’s no Ferrari,” Mitch yelled over  the rumble, “but I gave her life. Rebuilt it
with my own  hands.” He cranked the wheel  and, maneuvering forward, then backward,  eased the car
from the warehouse. Smitty hopped out and cranked down the overhead door.

At the front of the  line of garbage trucks, two of their drivers had looped  a tow chain around the
stolen car’s bumper. A third  man sat behind the wheel of one of the  monsters, poised to drag the
car from its resting place.  With all the legal hoopla they’d had to  go through, they’d be late
getting out on their routes.

Seeing the GTO idle onto the street, one of the waiting drivers called out,

“Hit it!” Mitch did just that, launching the muscle car out onto the open

THE IDENTITY CHECK

391

road, headed for a junkyard.

Barnes and Horne  with a half-dozen other  agents, each packing an automatic  weapon, crouched under
the canopy of Three Queens. Each agent had on a bulletproof vest, a blue windbreaker pulled over the
top with the white letters FBI stenciled boldly front and back.

“Open up!” Barnes yelled at the sleeping guard. He hammered on the glass door with his fist.

The guard wobbled to his feet and came to the door, blinking and bewildered. “What do you want?”
he mumbled.

Horne slapped a folded document up to the glass. “Warrant! Open up!”

The guard cranked the prehistoric brass lock and  stepped aside, then pulled his radio from his hip.
The agents burst through the opening, Barnes  yelling instructions as they went. “Cover the exits;
make sure he doesn’t get out.”

“Mr. Domenico, Mr.  Domenico,” the guard hollered  into his unit. “We’ve  got Federal agents
coming in the building. They’re searching the place. They’ve got a warrant.”

When Horne heard the word “warrant,” he snatched  the radio away from the stunned guard. “Shut
up!”  he ordered.  He pressed  the radio’s  transmit button.  “The warrant’s  for a  Trenton
Ritter,” he called out, clarifying the matter. “The charge is arson. We know he’s somewhere in
the building. We’re here to take him in.” He could just imagine the havoc he’d incited at that
instant on  the 13th floor. Indeed,  upstairs, Vinnie stumbled from  his bed and rifled  through the
small fridge in his office bar.

And twenty  minutes later, Ritter, in  handcuffs, was being  escorted from Three Queens.  In meeting
with the  agents, Vinnie swore  he’d have  the money-grubbing stoolpigeon  out on bail  within the
hour–and swore even louder that his attorney would shut the agency down for harassment.

Out on the street, Horne eased Ritter’s head below the roof line of the Ford sedan and buckled him
in. Then he climbed in front and Barnes pulled away. “How’s the finger?” he asked, cool as can
be.

“How d’  ya’ think it feels,  mate? Feels like it’s  been bloody chopped off,  that’s how.
Don’t hurt as bad as me bloody head though.”

Horne chatted on. “Yeah, Vincent’s old man used to use the same MO. At least four of the guys’
bodies the Agency found roasting out in the desert 392 KEN MERRELL

off the highway had part of a pinky missing. Yup, that’s how he kept his people in line . . .”

Only a  mile down the  street Barnes pulled  over and  Horne climbed out  to unlatch the  cuffs from
Ritter’s arms.  “I ain’t  guilty a’ no  fire,” he  parroted for at  least the  sixth time.
Horne, suddenly speechless, merely  refastened the man’s seatbelt and climbed  back in front. Once
the vehicle had gotten up  to speed, Horne reached back over the seat,  the warrant in hand. “This
warrant is blank,” he confessed.

Ritter, clearly  considering himself the poster  boy for abuse of  every kind, shape and  form, shot
Horne an annoyed glare. “So what’s this all about then?”

The agents looked at each  other, then Barnes began to explain. “We did  a little research on that
shortened pinky of yours. Agent Horne, here, was  giving it to you straight. When Vinnie’s old man
chopped off someone’s finger it was the mark of a very short life. We couldn’t find a single man
who lived to tell about it.”

“I’m still here, ain’t I?”

“For now. It’s just a  matter of time.” Barnes then threw out a  seed he knew would germinate.
“We thought you ought  to know we have authorization to pay you  fifty-grand for Mike’s body. If
it’s where you say it is, that is.”

Ritter glanced back  and forth between the  two faces in the front  seat. “What if I  give you the
murder weapon, too?”

“Lets go back to the office and talk.”

Smitty had found  heaven on earth. Having made  immediate friends with the brutish  pack of junkyard
dogs, it was like he’d been accepted as part of the gang. He would jump around and play with them,
his tongue hanging down, matching the mongrel bunch’s  every action. While man and beast romped in
the dawning  morn, Mitch pulled  the GTO into  the dingy  paint booth and  locked the door.  When he
turned the corner of the shed, back to the gravel parking lot, he came upon a sight both amazing and
amusing. The  dogs were all  sitting on their  haunches in  a neat row.  Their eyes were  trained on
Smitty, who loomed like some bizarre choir director in front.

“How’d you do that?” Mitch asked, clearly puzzled.  More than once over the years he’d tried
to control the canine mob, if not to actually train them, at least to tame them of their high-strung
antics. But he’d never even

THE IDENTITY CHECK

393

gotten past “Okay, run around and bark as much as you want!”; and the

“sit” command was out of the question. The pack mentality had always won out.

Now here they were, eagerly surrendering to Smitty’s  beck and call. Hearing the approach of their
young master, the dogs’ gaze met Mitch’s, then  quickly turned back to Smitty, ears perked, eyes
attentive. The mute sent a series of tiny blasts of air through his rotting teeth, sporadic, shrill,
whistle-type screeches. The oldest of  the pack raised his head and let out  a howl. The other five,
one by  one, jumped  on the bandwagon,  sending an  eerie, high-pitched dirge  out across  the metal
boneyard.

When Smitty’s whistles stopped, the dogs stopped howling. A pleased grin flooded the man’s face.
His voice had no doubt been heard, listened to, and obeyed. Mitch was equally delighted. “That was
cool, Smitty. I’ve never seen them obey  anyone like that–not even Grandpa.” Thrilled with his
triumph, Smitty hunkered onto  the ground, letting the mongrels wash over him  in a manic display of
dog dribble.

Mitch gazed down on the display of human bliss. “You haven’t had much sleep, Smitty. I’ve been
thinking of a safe place for you to stay while I’m gone.” The new leader of the pack stopped his
cavorting and got  to his feet. A  look of despair followed by  a rapid series of  hand signals told
Mitch that he wanted to go as well. Mitch wouldn’t hear of it. “Grandpa will be coming home from
the hospital  either today or  tomorrow. I need  you here to  keep an eye  on him. He’d  object to
having you  here, so I don’t  want him to even  know you’re around. You  be like . .  .” Mitch
paused to think, “like the phantom of the junkyard.”

The idea  brought a smile to  Smitty’s lips. He shot  a menacing glance around  the enclosure, his
eyes dancing back and forth in their sockets.

“A  key is  on a  hook under  the  front steps,”  Mitch continued.  “You’ll need  it if  the
trailer’s locked. Scrounge yourself up something to eat.  And there’s a pretty nice wreck out in
the northwest corner of the yard.  I used to play race car in it when I was  a kid. You can sleep in
that.”

The  adventure ahead  proved  too  inviting for  Smitty  to remain  focused.  Before  you could  say
“lickety-split,” he was off to explore the nooks and crannies of the expansive compound.

Turning to more pressing matters, Mitch fired up the loader and bounced his way between row upon row
of cars, some flattened, some rusty relics. 394 KEN MERRELL

Just past the row with  a dark green Vega on the end, he veered right  and gunned the loader all the
way to  the shed.  Making another  right, he  entered the building,  started the  old diesel  to the
crusher, backed up, scooped up his prize and started toward the wrecker.

Ten minutes later, the red prize was tooling down I-15, chained to the bed of the tow-truck.

The atmosphere  in the interview room  was not nearly as  explosive the second time  around. It was,
however, more frigid. The agents’ questions were grim, somber. Although the investigation had made
progress, the loss of the agent had hung a dark and humbling burden around the Agency’s neck. Even
Ritter–center  of  the  stage,  leading  man, marquee  player–seemed  more  accommodating,  less
arrogant. Still, he balked at their approach to the situation. “I promised him, mate. If I don’t
show, he won’t go.”

Barnes  was adamant.  “You turn  over the  body to  us and  we’ll make  that deposit  in Midland
Bank.”

“I can’t promise it’s still  where we put it. Besides, you need to get  your hands on the gun,
too.”

A soft  knock came at the  door. A secretary  stuck her head  in the room. “Officers,  Agent Field
would like to see you.”

Barnes and Horne started for the door. “We’ll be back in a few minutes,” grumbled Barnes.

“I’ll catch me breath while I wait.”

When the  two agents entered the  SAC’s office, they found  Field sitting next to  a short, rather
pudgy man. Both stood. “Reverend Keller,”

Field said  in the  way of introduction,  “this is  Agent Barnes, the  Assistant Special  Agent in
charge of this case.” The reverend reached out  and offered his hand. “And this,” Field added,
“is Agent Horne, his assistant. Please describe for them what you’ve just told me.”

Handshakes completed,  the men took  their seats and Reverend  Keller, remarkably calm,  started in.
“I run a soup  kitchen on Stewart. One of my  parishioners came to me, asking for  help. To make a
long story  short, in exchange  for your help,  I’m prepared  to tell you  where the body  of your
fallen agent is.”

Barnes stared  over at Horne. The  case was suddenly  taking a turn  for the better. “Who  is this
parishioner of yours?”

Keller smiled. “Shame  on you for asking. But, if  possible, I would like to speak  to the man you
arrested yesterday afternoon for kidnapping. That

THE IDENTITY CHECK

395

was quite the news report, you know.”

Barnes smirked. “That is,  if you believe the agency’s run by a  bunch of bumbling idiots,” he
replied, the sarcasm ringing like a church bell.

“You have to admit, chasing a transmitter down a sewer pipe is a little funny. And tipping off the
neighbor–well, that’s even more weird.”

“Mitchell Wilson’s going to get himself killed.

Keller’s mood turned pensive. “He goes by the name ‘Lightning.’

He’s  kind of  a Robin  Hood  figure among  my patrons.  The  boy’s been  shutting down  illegal
activities in my neighborhood one after another.”

“Do you know where he is?”

“No, but I  think he plans on making an  appearance today. Be gentle with him;  he’s a good man.
Make sure you have an adequate number of agents  in front of Three Queens by nine this morning. Keep
a close watch on Mr. Domenico–he won’t be a happy man. . . . Now, about Mr. Hart.”

The reverend stood.  “Why don’t you let me  speak with him and we’ll  finish this conversation
later.”

Mitch exited the freeway  at Washington and pulled into the coinoperated carwash  next to the Texaco
station.  After  dumping  five  dollars  in  change  and making  a  handful  of  passes  around  the
Ferrari–using both the brush and  spray wand–the black ash was rinsed off and  a new coat of hot
wax had  been applied.  Then, walking  over to  the service  station’s phone  booth, he  dropped a
quarter and a dime  into its slot and punched in  a number, one he knew by heart.  It was the number
he’d seen flashing on Mike’s  cell phone the week before. It was the  number to an incoming call
from Vinnie, as he stood in front of  Carson’s Auto Body. “Shame on you, kid,” he’d heckled.
“Didn’t youthink about  your gorgeous woman first? Hope  you get to her beforeFrankie  does. . .
.” The  threat had burned into  Mitch’s soul. He remembered  peering down the street  and seeing
Vinnie smiling at him over  the hood of one of the police cars. “Looks like  I gotta go. Call meif
you need any help with the details. You got  his phone now.” It was Mitch’s turn now. Many times
he’d rehearsed his role in this final act, right down to the last detail. The running was over. To
use another fitting analogy, it was time to pay the conductor for his long and terrifying ride.

Meanwhile, Vinnie paced back and forth in front of his desk, making 396 KEN MERRELL

another in a persistent string of impossible demands  on his attorney. When the phone rang, his hand
flew to the pocket of his jacket. “What?” he shouted into the phone.

Mitch initiated the freewheeling chat by taking a dig at his foe’s warped sense of decorum. “Mr.
Domenico . . . Or should I call you Vinnie?”

An earful  of malicious oaths  and threats–sprinkled with  a glut of  choice profanities–sprayed
through the phone.

When the  earpiece had cooled down,  Mitch taunted, “No need  to be hostile. You’re  the one who
lied–again.”

“You’re a dead man, kid. If it’s the last thing I do, I’ll . . .”

“Vinnie, Vinnie,  listen to me,” Mitch  said, putting a bridle  on the crass carousel  of words.
“I picked up my goat  this morning and thought it only fair to deliver your  car. I just gave it a
bath and a coat  of hot wax. I was wondering if  maybe we could kiss and make up,  sort of start off
fresh, if you know what I mean.”

The line  went silent. For  perhaps the first  time in his life,  Vinnie was speechless.  “I think
you’ve seen I’m  good at what I do,” Mitch  continued. “You could use a guy  like me to help
get the place up  and running again. And, who knows,  I might be able to rig your  tables for you to
make a better profit.”

Vinnie’s brain  spun like  a merry-go-round.  A dim hope  of redemption  dawned. He  stammered for
words.

“Of course I wouldn’t settle for anything less than half the business,” Mitch added. “I’ll
give you a  few minutes to think about it.  I’m just around the corner. I’ll  meet you under the
canopy in five minutes.” Slamming down the receiver,  he jumped back in the truck. Two blocks from
Three Queens Mitch  eased the flatbed wrecker  over to the side  of the road. He  removed the safety
chains from  the Ferrari’s  chassis and tossed  them on  the floorboards of  the old  truck. Then,
pulling his rumpled baseball cap low on his forehead and checking his watch, he fired up the wrecker
one last  time. Still  towing the gleaming,  fire-red vehicle  behind, he inched  the tow  truck the
remaining few blocks up the street. For the second time in a week, Mitch felt as if he were floating
through space. He’d experienced a similar  feeling shortly after seeing Mike murdered–a stilted,
surreal nauseating sensation.  But now the sense of buoyancy  was more a butterflies-in-the-stomach,
weightless,  thrilling,  tired resignation.  A  climactic,  fateful ending;  the  dawning  of a  new
beginning.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

397

He drove on. Outside the casino a dozen agents  hunkered near their cars. Making a wide arc in front
of the canopy, Mitch jammed the truck in reverse and backed under the canopy. With the agents gazing
on, Vinnie pushed aside the glass door to claim his beloved prize. But Mitch wanted the presentation
done right.  With a flick  of the  wrist, he yanked  the handle to  the power  take off and  set the
parking brake with  his foot. By now two  agents had come forward, their  weapons drawn. Cautiously,
they opened his door and  called him down out of the truck’s cab. Mitch  climbed out, his hands in
the air, having finally come to the end of his chain of daring–some would say reckless–exploits.
Immediately he was forced to  the ground. The blur of arms and blue jackets  fogged his eyes; all he
could hear  were a series of  screams, shouts, and  the sound of metal  sliding from the bed  of the
wrecker.

The truck’s mechanism had been set in motion. Once the back lift had done its hydraulic magic, the
bed of the tow truck continued to rise slowly into the air, a rise leading to a fall that Vinnie was
helpless to prevent.  The shouts died down, the  metallic grinding abruptly ended, and  a torrent of
vulgarities rent  the air. With the  truck’s bed up, it’s  load disengaged and slammed  onto the
concrete drive. Well tagged by the jaw marks of  a junkyard crusher, the car lay flat on the ground,
a  scant ten  inches tall,  a crushed  beer can  at Vinnie’s  feet. It  took five  agents and  one
over-paid attorney to restrain Vinnie. He fumbled for his gun–but it was over. When the ruckus had
quelled to a  relatively mild squawking of  radios, milling FBI agents and  curious onlookers, Mitch
was brought to his feet. He peered across the slanted bed of the wrecker. Vinnie was there, stripped
of  his gun  and  disrobed  of his  pride.  Mitch couldn’t  help  but  smile. Notwithstanding  his
attorney’s warnings  to remain  silent, the  disabled tyrant screamed  out, “This  ain’t over,
punk! Not by a long shot!”

398 KEN MERRELL

FORTY-FOUR

THE LUSH  TERRY-CLOTH gently caressed  her weathered skin.  Nurse drew the  towel from her  face and
polished the fog from  the mirror. The corrugated reflection that peered back  at her documented the
passing of  many years  living under the  harshest of conditions.  The towel  in her hand  felt good
against her skin.  A shower in the morning, clean  linen . . . they were  comforts she could quickly
become accustomed to. She  crowded the indulgent thought from her mind and  let the damp fabric slip
from her fingers and sag onto the sparkling tile floor. Sound, too, seemed more than a bit sullen as
he carefully applied the layers of makeup to her face.  His mind was far from the task of hiding the
myriad creases and  age spots. The money in  Cap’n’s briefcase called out to  him. Its stockpile
represented  all the  good  things  in life:  a  respectable  job, a  nice  apartment,  food in  the
refrigerator, silk sheets.  Nurse studied the concentrated  look on his flaxen face  and listened to
his labored breathing.

“You seem tired,  Sound,” Nurse said, the  words cutting into the ponderous  silence. The skinny
man looked up and forced a weak smile. “I guess all this excitement is just wearing me out.”

“I know it ain’t been easy, you livin’ on th’ street an’ all.”

“No, it hasn’t. But you sure made it  wonderful.” His breathing was shallow and uneven. He was
well aware that the life was slowly ebbing  from his worn-out body. His malfunctioning immune system
was failing faster than ever. The disease had nearly exacted its awful toll.

“Can’t say  I care  much fer this  spoiled livin’ myself.  If’n ya’  ask me, could  make a
person fat.”

Sound coughed and doubled over in pain. “I’ve bruised my ribs a little,”

he moaned.

An alarm went off in Nurse’s head. “Lemme see.”

“No, I’ll be fine.”

“I mean it,” she insisted, reaching out with her crooked fingers.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

399

Sound tried to resist the firm grip Nurse held on his shirt. “Really, I’ll be fine.”

Not to be  denied, she yanked his shirttail free  and lifted it up, exposing a  nasty yellow bruise,
which ran down his chest and across his stomach. “‘At don’t look so little t’ me.”

Sound pulled away. “I’ll be fine.”

“Any trouble inside? Pain in th’ lungs?”

“Just a little congestion. No problem.”

They  both  knew  ‘a little  congestion,’  if  left  untreated,  could develop  into  full-blown
pneumonia, imminent death for an uninsured man with AIDS.

“Don’t like it,” fretted Nurse. “We best get you to the clinic.”

“When  we’re finished.  .  . .  Now,  we need  to get  you  looking like  a  million bucks,  Mrs
Lambert.”

Cap’n stepped from the bathroom, little bits of tissue speckling his shiny head. “I remember why
I stopped shavin’,” he  carped. “Can’t stand the thought of bleedin’  ever’day by my own
hand.”

The dismal tone  of the room reached  out like a woman scorned  and slapped Cap’n up  the side his
newly shaved face. “What’s goin’ on?”

he asked. “Had a death in the house?”

“No, everything’s fine,” replied Sound.

“Like hell  it is. I  seen faces same  as those  you’re wearin’ when  Jumper was found  on the
tracks.”

“We’re just a little tired,  is all.” Sound knew the source of his  bruised ribs. He also knew
that it would tear Cap’n up something awful if he  ever found out that he was the partial cause of
the pain.  Tired of  waiting–that’s what Ritter  was feeling. The  ‘few minutes’  Barnes had
promised had turned into hours–two, to be exact.  Ritter had passed the time napping on the table,
making a trip to the loo, and applying a new bandage wrap to his severed pinky. The guards were much
more amenable to his requests than the last time he’d visited their fine establishment. And he was
one who very much liked to be pampered.

Down the  hall in a  lockup section of  the building, Greg Hart  and Reverend Keller  were finishing
up  a  lengthy discussion  that  ran  the gamut  of  marital  relations–all about  love,  respect,
responsibility, trust,  overcoming addictions,  and how  to move  forward if  Linda were  willing to
reconsider a relationship. Greg had wholeheartedly agreed to any terms she might dictate. Before the
reverend left, he told Greg about one of his lawyer friends 400 KEN MERRELL

who on occasion did a bit of pro-bono legal work for his parishioners. Keller promised to speak with
him to  see if he  could fit  another case on  his docket. Then  he stood  and said, “My  guess is
Lightening’s been brought  in by the police by  now. I’d have given a day’s  blessings to have
seen Vinnie’s face when his car was delivered,” he added, clearly amused.

“That expensive piece of flattened wreckage must have been quite a sad sight.”

Greg chuckled, thinking of Mitch. “You don’t suppose they hurt him do you?”

“I’m sure they treated  him gently, and also sure that more than  a little adrenalin was pumping
through his  veins. Payback usually isn’t  a good thing; in  this case, I’ll bet  it felt mighty
fine.”

“Have you heard from Nurse?”

“Not yet, but my wager is she’ll be right on time.”

“And the elder Mr. Domenico?”

“I had a bit of a time getting through, but once  I did and read him the letter, he was anxious to
meet with me.”

Greg extended his visitor a warm handshake. “I don’t know how to thank you,” he said.

“The expression on your face says it all. Just  hope I don’t get sent to join you here, that’s
all I ask.”

“You don’t suppose they’d . . .”

“Nah, I’m a man of the cloth,” Keller retorted.  “I have just a little more wiggle room than
the regular Joe.  Although I am going  to pay through the  nose listening to Cook.  He can’t stand
serving warm orange juice on the soup line. But that refrigerator-freezer was needed elsewhere.”

Greg laughed.

“It’s time  for a new one  anyway.” Reverend Keller continued  to grip Greg’s hand.  He then
pulled him  close and said,  “With God’s help–and  that’s the source  of all help,  I remind
you–we’ll get you through this. I promise. And the rest of our friends, too.”

Rays of warmth and compassion seemed to radiate  from the old plumber like bright beams of channeled
love. At  that very moment  Greg felt strangely  connected to God.  Little shards of  prickly warmth
danced up and down his  spine. “Somehow I believe you,” Greg said as  they pulled away and wiped
the corners of their eyes. “I can’t help but believe you.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

401

When the  door clicked shut  behind him, Reverend  Keller bowed his head  and leaned up  against the
nearest wall. Closing his eyes in prayer, he  offered up thanks for bringing light to Greg’s life.
Then he put in a  shortorder for another little strand of future miracles. On  the other side of the
wall from Keller, Greg, too, was overcome by a feeling of thanksgiving. A spiritual wave washed over
him, a longing to be fed by God’s grace. While waiting for the guard to come to escort him back to
his cell, he  covered his face with  his hands and offered up  his own humble prayer.  For the first
time in  more than a  year, he asked for–more  accurately, pled for–additional  guidance, direct
from  its Source.  Stephanie had  been riveted  by the  latest news  reports. Every  few minutes  an
in-studio anchor would come on with an update:  It appears that ablatant onslaught of identity theft
has been perpetrated against a num-ber of local political  leaders. . . . A Nevada State Senator has
beenaccused  of. .  .  . The  mayor  claims that  credit  cards in  his  name wereused.  .  . .  The
story  had fast  turned into  a media  feeding frenzy–and  a politician’s  worst nightmare.  Law
enforcement and political leaders dogged one another,  each pointing fingers, demanding the other do
something–“create tougher laws,” “find better means of enforcing them. . . .”

The disastrous assaults against  politicians had been sustained on a local  level, but the political
fallout  was very  much  felt  nationwide. Lawmakers  all  across the  country  flew  into a  tizzy,
desperately seeking a  solution to the insidious attacks  on their character. It was  like they were
standing in  a windstorm dressed  in cheap cotton  skirts. If nearly  every public figure  in Nevada
could be targeted, that meant no one was  safe. In only a day’s time, a congressional subcommittee
was formed  to investigate the issues  and present new information  that could help mend  the broken
system. In addition,  a senate hearing had been  scheduled to listen to victims of  such crimes. The
burden that  followed such a devastating  breach of personal  financial security must be  shared and
felt by others. One seemingly insignificant little man, Roy Higgins, appeared to be at the center of
the storm. Although he was only the tiny cadre of the plan, it was he, who the media seemed to focus
on. He who’d managed to kick the financial legs  right out from under so many powerful men. Now he
was being held  in a Florida county jail,  surrounded by a team of  media-chasing legal-beagles. The
public outcry for the case to move forward through the 402 KEN MERRELL

justice  system was  being jammed  up by  a simple  extradition hearing,  a political  hot-rock that
quickly forced the Florida Supreme Court to call a special session to consider the evidence.

A  long  list of  powerful  people–senators,  congressmen, judges,  the  state  governor, and  Las
Vegas’s own  mayor–were among the wounded  egos. Juggling high-priced attorneys,  they wanted to
see the case back under  Nevada rule as soon as possible. Only close at  home could they assure that
the proper thumbscrews would be applied.

It didn’t matter that the publicity and political wrangling were costing precious time–time that
allowed Ivan Lions and his  three-man staff to pull up stakes and skip  the state; time that allowed
Roy Higgins to  melt under the clutches  of slick lawyers and plead  the 5th. Were it  not for their
shrewd motions and objections,  Higgins would have sung like an angelic creep,  giving up the entire
basement operation  and all its players.  Stephanie gazed impassively  at her father’s face  as it
flashed across the screen on the national morning  news, the pained face of a congressional freshman
encompassed about by reporters. “He looks tired,” she said. “So does mother.”

“Public scrutiny  isn’t an easy  thing to take,”  Maggie empathized. Then  Stephanie’s fixed
stare took on a hurt  expression as an all-toovivid memory came to mind.  “Once, during one of our
worst arguments,  he told  me that raising  a rebellious  daughter who was  an embarrassment  to the
family name was the hardest thing he’d ever done.”

“That must have stung.”

“It did, but I don’t  think he really meant it. He’s just too  bullheaded to say he’s sorry,
and I’m too hurt to go crawling back for more.”

The  women listened  halfheartedly to  the  succession of  news  broadcasts. They  were followed  by
an  informal  statement  from  Congressman  MacArthur, which  instantly  turned  into  an  impromptu
question-and-answer session. Out of the blue, one of  the reporters shouted out a question that sent
a hush over the  crowd. “Congressman MacArthur, is it true your daughter  is being held in custody
and your  son-in-law, Mitchell Wilson, was  arrested this morning  on suspicion of murdering  an FBI
agent?”

“Oh, no!” Stephanie gasped.

The congressman’s face fell slack, the jolt from  the question penetrating like a hot syringe. His
head snapped to the side, as if he had a crick in his neck. Only slightly recovering from the shock,
and with his political prowess barely intact, he mumbled, “I can’t comment at this

THE IDENTITY CHECK

403

time.”

With that, he was beset by a fresh  onslaught of questions. Stephanie watched the horror register on
her mother’s face as she was shuffled to the waiting car. Deep within her eyes, the terrible–and
understandable–wave of  despair and disbelief  merged with another, strange,  indefinable emotion.
Peering hard at the face on the screen, Stephanie suddenly recognized it for what it was. She beheld
in  her mother’s  expression a  note of  relief  and tranquility.  Perhaps it  resonated from  the
knowledge that  now, finally, they could  get to the bottom  of the matter–and then  start anew to
climb back out.

The call to Mr. Lyman Wilding, the Special  Supervisory Resident Agent (SSRA) up on the fifth floor,
came within 20 minutes after Congressman MacArthur’s slam of Bureau headquarters in Washington. In
less than two minutes, the  stuff hit the fan on down the line: Field, the  SAC, was censured by the
SSRA and,  in turn,  Field yanked  Barnes from  a meeting with  Reverend Keller  and ordered  him to
report. The  ‘pucker factor’ was up  around a ‘10’  when Barnes and Horne  entered Field’s
office, where Wilding himself sat, waiting.

“We’ve got  a leak big  enough to sink  the whole  damn ship,” Field  began. “We just  had a
Washington  reporter, on  national  television, ask  Congressman MacArthur  about  his daughter  and
son-in-law. What the hell’s going on?”

“I  don’t  know,  sir.” Barnes’  voice  cracked  slightly.  Wilding  cleared his  throat.  A
methodical man, with  a full head of black hair  graying at the temples, he sniffled  a bit from the
tail-end of a spring cold and begged a simple question: “Why wasn’t the congressman informed?”

Barnes came  back with a  simple answer: “The  girl asked us  not to tell  him. The man  hates his
son-in-law as it is. Seems her marriage to the lower class drove a few skeletons into the closet and
let a few others out.”

“Fair enough,” nodded Wilding.  “The girl has her right to privacy. Now  bring me up to speed.
If  I’m going  to take  a butt-chewing  from Washington,  I might  as well  know how  to cover  my
agents’ backs.”

Barnes tried to summarize the situation in as few words as possible.

“At this very  minute we have a Reverend Keller  sitting in interview two. He says  he knows where
Agent Hale’s body was hidden shortly after 404 KEN MERRELL

he  was murdered.  From what  we know  about the  reverend, he’s  straight up  and tight  with the
homeless. The man has a lot of information  rattling around he’ll never give away, but what he’s
willing to give us seems legit.”

“You mind if I observe the interview?”

“No, sir.”

Hence, a few minutes later the brass were seated behind the twoway mirror as Barnes tried to pick up
the interview where he left off.

“Sorry for the interruption, Reverend. Let’s see, where were we?”

Keller shook his head in mock forgetfulness. “I can’t  remember for sure. Was it you who told me
about the report on  national television, or was that inspiration?”  Barnes flinched. The stunning
fact was that  the ‘leak’ was sitting right  in front of him. He’d only  barely recovered from
the  question when  Wilding and  Field  entered the  room–the  proverbial cavalry  to the  rescue.
“Reverend  Keller,”  Wilding  said,  pulling  his identification  from  his  hip,  “I’m  the
supervising agent of the Las Vegas division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.” He thrust the
badge in  Keller’s face.  “And this is  Special Agent  Field, in charge  of this  case.” Field
likewise flashed his badge.

“You’re a very resourceful man.”

“With a little help from God, don’t forget,”  the reverend said, smiling. Wilding had no witty
rebuttal for such a remark. “Granted. . . . Now,” he stammered, “you might be able to clear up
a lot of . . . confusion for us.”

“I do that each morning on bended knee when I’m reminded of the needs of my little flock.”

“Put aside the ecclesiastical mantle, Reverend,” snapped Wilding,

“It seems you may have  an agenda that runs counter to what we’re trying  to achieve. Can we cut
to the chase and put that request and consideration on the table?”

It was time for Keller to drop his bombshell. “Before we do,” he said, meeting Wilding’s gaze,
“why don’t you send a  team to Ford Frozen Foods and examine locker number  418. I placed a call
to Mr. Ford this morning; I don’t believe you’ll need a warrant.”

“You’ll wait here?”

“Fine. I was thinking it might be nice  to visit another one of my parishioners–who just happens
to be one of your prisoners–if you don’t mind.”

Nurse and Sound  parked themselves in the dining  room of The Palace, piecing on  the brunch buffet.
More breakfast varieties “than you can

THE IDENTITY CHECK

405

shake a stick at”–as Nurse remarked–lined the linen-topped tables. Cap’n was off by himself,
feasting at  the snack bar.  Occasionally he peeked  over to  see what was  taking the two  so long.
Guests who  sat nearby  kept sneaking  sideways glances  at the  odd-looking couple  casually eating
breakfast and engaged in a serious discussion.

“I don’t want any special measures taken to keep me alive. You know that, don’t you?”

“Yup,” Nurse grunted, “but it don’t mean I like it.”

Sound coughed. “You still have power of attorney for me, right?”

“That cough don’t sound so good.”

“Do you still have it?” Sound repeated.

“In my box. . . . Ya’ know, I don’t care none t’ talk ‘bout you dyin’.”

“Talking about it or not talking about . . . it won’t change anything.”

Nurse gave a nod. “Then let’s not talk about it.”

“We have to.  I had that dream again  last night. This time  I was standing at the  door, ready to
knock. I  think it’s going  to happen soon.  They say once  it gets into  its last stages,  you go
downhill pretty fast.”

Nurse inserted her fingertips in her ears and began to hum: “La, la, la.”

“Nurse,” Sound said, pleadingly,  tapping on her hands. “You’re the  closest thing to family
I’ve got. I need you to listen.”

The old  woman picked up her  napkin and daubed  at her eyes. “Don’t  know if’n I can,  boy. I
ain’t had to deal with nobody dyin’–nobody I been close to, that is–not fer fifty years. . .
.” Her voice broke as she added, “Ya’ got so .  . . close t’ m’ heart. Don’t wanna . . .
let ya’ go.”

Sound was  crying, too. “Maybe you’re  healing,” he whispered.  “Maybe it’s time to  let a
little of the  love back in . .  . start receiving back  some of that love you’ve  been giving all
these years. I haven’t heard you talk to Belle  in days. And you just admitted that she died fifty
years ago.”

“I was afraid,” Nurse blubbered. “Afraid if’n I let her die, she’d–she’d take my heart
with  her.  Turned out  just  the  opposite.  Seem’s my  heart’s  so  full it’s  ‘bout  t’
explode.”

“And that’s okay, Nurse. That’s how it’s supposed to feel when we lose someone we love.”

“But I don’t like it–don’t like it one bit. . . . Hurts too much.”

Sound forced a little smile. “Tell me about Belle. Was she a pretty baby?”

Amid  the tears,  a  faint smile  slowly  appeared on  Nurse’s lips.  “Oh,”  she sighed,  “a
beautiful child. Soft blue eyes, dimpled cheeks. When she giggled 406 KEN MERRELL

she’d let out a  belly-laugh ‘at made ever’body in earshot howl. Her  little hands looked like
they’d been  screwed on at  th’ wrist by  God hisself. She  used t’ stand  on my lap  when she
finished nursin’ an’ plant a mouthful a’

kisses on my face. Would make me laugh so hard. . . . Her daddy tried t’

make me stop nursin’ her  when she got so big she’d march right up an’  pull up my shirt an’
just ‘bout crawl underneath it. Belle an’ me,  we did it anyways. Doctor said nursin’ was good
for th’ baby.” The old woman paused. It was  then that Sound realized how the dear old woman had
picked up  her nickname. She’d nursed  ‘til she could give  no more, then went  right on nursing
those in need. It was a bonding thing. In  her loneliness, she’d tried to fill a void–filling it
up with love. “How are you feeling right now?” Sound asked.

Still  picturing her  beloved  child, Nurse’s  smile  hadn’t faded  one  whit. “Them’s  fine
memories,” she said, her eyes still brimming with tears. “Makes me feel good all over.”

Sound put his hand  on hers. “That’s how love works,” he tenderly  explained. “It never goes
away. God gave us some  tools to deal with pain. Time helps; so does the  comfort of loved ones. And
after awhile the pain goes away and pure love takes its place.”

“It’s gonna leave a big hole when you’re gone.”

“We’ve shared  enough love to fill  the hole–and then some.  We’ve given each other  so much
that you’ll have plenty to  share. You’ll be happier each time to give a  little. . . .” Sound
looked across the  table and gave Nurse a  solemn stare. His voice lowered nearly  an octave. “Now
Cap’n can’t know  he bruised my ribs clear  to my lungs, or it’ll crush  him. Promise you’ll
never tell him.  And if he ever  does figure it out, promise  me that you’ll help  him get through
it.”

Nurse squinted through the tears and mumbled, “Promise.”

Sound returned  to his  philosophical lecture.  “It’s sometimes  good to  cry, Nurse.  Tears are
God’s way of washing away  the pain. When the tears come, call up the  good times we’ve had, the
hard times,  too. Smile  and laugh about  them. I  promise the hurt  will go away  if you  do.” He
clasped the woman’s weathered hands between his own. “If I could have a choice where I wanted to
spend this  last year, it’d be  with you again.  I’d take the  sickness over health, to  be your
friend all over again.”

Nurse let out a heavy sigh, a cleansing breath to oust the despair and take in the comfort. “An’
if’n I  could choose,  I’d take th’  sickness for  ya’, so’s you  could finish  them years
you’ll miss.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

407

The sound of  air leaking out of something diverted  their attention to a booth across  the isle and
down from theirs. It was  Cap’n. “Psssst . . . pssst,” he hissed,  motioning with his head for
them to leave the restaurant. If the sight of  the two blubbering diners in the first booth hadn’t
already attracted enough  attention, Cap’n’s flat tire impression in  booth number nine finished
the job.

Smitty traversed the length  and breadth of the junkyard, exploring every  nook and cranny, climbing
on mountains of  cars, jumping from pile to pile.  The dogs followed at his heels,  running along on
the ground,  seemingly overjoyed  to act  as his  personal entourage.  “Tarzan of  the Junkyard”
seemed  an appropriate  title–and that’s  just how  he felt:  like a  giddy, wild,  all-powerful
ape-man. As far  as Smitty was concerned,  he’d died and gone  to dog heaven. Up  until Nurse came
along, the few mutts he was permitted to have as  a child had been his only friends in the world. It
was as  a sensitive  eight-year-old that his  friends met  a most tragic  fate. When  his stepmother
realized that  those dogs were  Smitty’s only reason  to get up  each day and  put a smile  on his
face–despite her  beatings and neardrownings–she  promptly saw to  it that they  were destroyed,
slaughtered right  before his eyes. The  trauma lasted for years;  at times the ghastly  images from
that day still caused him to awaken in a sweat of panic. But now both Smitty and his new canine pals
were safe. That evil woman  couldn’t hurt these dogs–never, not where she’d gone  to. No . . .
never. Smitty peeked under the  front steps of the trailer and wrested the  key from its hook. After
gorging himself on  week-old junkyard dog stew, soon  he was sound asleep on the  living room couch,
happily dreaming about dogs.

Meanwhile, the home aid assigned by Medicare had already been replaced by a special agent trained in
nursing.  Word had  not yet  filtered down  that the  perp was  in custody  and the  agent could  be
reassigned. And so, riding along in the back of a van, the agent and his not-so-patient patient, Mr.
Wilson, were on their way out to the dusty junkyard.

Around 1:15  that afternoon, the  homehealth van  pulled up the  gravel drive. Another  car followed
fifteen seconds behind.  The sight and ruckus of a  wild pack of dogs leaping from  the porch sent a
wave of terror through the young driver–and sent him  scurrying back to the safety of the van. But
408 KEN MERRELL

to Grandpa’s ears, the barks and howls were  strains of joy–comforting, lyrical music to a tired
old man’s soul.  “All bark, no bite,”  the cantankerous old fellow grunted  from the makeshift
bed. He turned to the unnerved aid.

“Unbuckle me and help me up. I’ll call ‘em off.”

The aid  released the straps  and helped his  patient to  a sitting position,  from where he  gave a
labored whistle. The barks immediately went from throaty snarls to whiny yips and yelps. The dogs’
body language changed as well, tails wagging, heads bobbing.

“You can get out now,” Grandpa called up front. “They know I’m home.”

“You kiddin’ me?” said the young man behind the wheel. “Them dogs’ll eat me for lunch!”

All at once the trailer’s front door burst open  and, like a flash of lightning, Smitty sprang out
and bounded over the  railing, before disappearing southward into the  metal jungle. Thundering paws
gave chase,  as one heap  of dog flesh  clambered over the  other, each trying  to be first  in line
behind the leader of the pack. Off they went, their anxious barks splitting the still, hot air.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

409

FORTY-FIVE

AFEW BANGED RIBS, a scraped elbow, a sprained  wrist, and the total and exquisite feeling of victory
were his trophies of battle. Mitch would soon forget the bumps and bruises–not much more than your
average day  on the  football field. But  he’d carry  with him  the rest of  his life  this divine
feeling of gratitude. What a relief it would be to be cleared of a crime he didn’t commit. And the
look on Vinnie’s  face was an enormous bonus, given  at no cost to Mitch and  the dozens of agents
who’d reveled in  the moment. All said and done,  more than a few stifled chuckles  had been heard
before Mitch was put in a car and whisked away, the proclaimed “masked Zorro” of the homeless.

“You’re a  lucky young man,”  Reverend Keller said after  proper introductions had  been made.
“A hot shot like David of old, perhaps, but  shielded from the wickedness of the modern Goliath by
the grace of God.”

“You think God saved me?”

“Do you think you did it on your own–discovered the whereabouts of Vinnie’s new operation, got
your car back, got Vinnie arrested?”

“Yeah, with a lot of help from Smitty.”

“Well that’s giving credit where credit’s due.  Smitty’s a miracle in himself. Alive against
all worldly odds, with a positive outlook on life, despite who knows what horrible abuse. . . . Have
you ever seen his back?”

“No.”

“Scars so thick he can’t  stand up straight. I’m sure the scars inside  are just as bad. Those
we’ll probably not  see until he stands  at the judgment bar  of God, when Christ  takes them upon
himself and the person who inflicted them burns in hell.”

Mitch’s countenance fell. “I didn’t know . . .”

“The man’s come through it all like a champ, though.”

“I’d say.”

“And just look  at Nurse. Another miracle. Stripped  her bony behind to save your  hide; clubbed a
guard to keep you safe; and gave up all she had 410 KEN MERRELL

to see this whole thing  through. All this from a woman who was labeled  loonier than a fruitcake in
her earlier  days. Now  that backwoods hillbilly,  the supposed lunatic,  has the  political yuppies
taking lessons from her.”

“What do you mean?”

Keller shot Mitch a teasing smile. “You’ll figure  it out before it’s over. Suffice it to say,
she’s playing a key role in solving this entire identity theft mess. And, believe me, we’ll need
a few more miracles to get you all out in one piece.”

Mitch shifted  apprehensively. Nurse had warned  him that the  reverend was a sharp  cookie. She’d
also said that he could  look right into one’s heart and pick out what was  missing; it was one of
his  gifts from  God. She  never knew  herself how  often he  did the  same with  her. The  reverend
continued with his  sermon. “Did you ever  stop to think that God  can see so far  into the future
that he can  bring two people together to  accomplish His purposes–to get His  work done? That’s
exactly what He did with Nurse and Sound. God sent  to Nurse the one man that could teach her how to
cope with  death, and Sound was  given Nurse to  help him through  this difficult time in  his life.
That’s the whole  purpose behind what we call  a “godsend”. . .  . In the same way  He can see
forward, God  can look so far  back into the  past that He can  anticipate our actions. He  knows us
personally, he knows  what we need most. .  . . Take a complicated problem  like your father-in-law.
Did you have the tools to fix the problem?”

Mitch shook his head.  “I don’t think so. He only  spoke to me once, and that was  to warn me to
stay away from his daughter.  There was no way I was going to  change his mind.” He wondered–how
did Reverend Keller know  anything about his father-in-law? Keller went on  with his analogy. “How
is it that  you can take on a gangster  like Vincent Domenico, but you can’t  make peace with your
in-laws? The  thought casts  a different  light on  things, doesn’t  it? The  key is  knowing that
someone  else has  the tools  to fix  that  problem. It’s  like a  huge tool  chest chock-full  of
different wrenches and  saws and hammers. Each tool  is designed for a different task.  You might be
terrific with a hammer, but maybe you need someone  who can wield a saw, instead. That’s where the
Master Carpenter comes in. He’s familiar with all the  tools; He knows which one to pick up at any
given time; He knows just who  to send along to help you with your problems. .  . . I have a feeling
that you may be seeing a change of heart in  your father-in-law. To you it will be a miracle; to God
it’s just what

THE IDENTITY CHECK

411

He does.”

Mitch smiled to himself. The reverend had just pointed out his weaknesses, without pointing fingers.
He knew  a lot  about human nature.  But Keller  was wrong about  one thing:  Congressman MacArthur,
Stephanie’s ogre  of a daddy, would  be all the more  incensed by the whole,  embarrassing ordeal.
There would  be no generous outpouring  of love and compassion,  nor a willingness to  welcome Mitch
into the family. “I think you’re wrong, Reverend. Do you even know who he is?”

“It  doesn’t matter  if I  know who  he is.  God knows.  He knows  perfectly what  He’s doing.
You’ll see.” Keller stood. “I’m sure Agent Barnes and his cronies want to talk to me now.”

A knock came  at the door; it was Barnes.  “We’re ready to discuss a few  arrangements with you,
Reverend.”

The  pastor turned  back. “Think  about it,  Mitch. See  what’s missing  in your  life. Give  up
what’s troubling you–give those burdens to God. He’ll take them when you’re ready.”

Mitch pondered the philosophy behind it all.  “What about Bino’s daughter?” he called out, the
niggling questions rushing into his mind. “Where was God then?”

Reverend Keller  was already out  the door, following  Barnes down the hall  and up the  elevator to
Field’s  office. As  he took  his seat,  his mind  bounced Mitch’s  words to  and fro.  Bino’s
daughter. . . . Wilding began the interview anew. “This is our prosecuting attorney, Glade Cox,”
he said, gesturing to a  suited figure seated near the opposite wall. “It turns  out a body was in
the locker. It’s gone now.”

“Agent Hale’s?”

“Possibly. We don’t have DNA confirmation yet.”

“Blood type matches Hale’s?”

“Yes.”

Keller suppressed a  sudden yawn, brought on by  fatigue, not boredom. “Assume for a  moment it is
Agent Hale. You know by now you’ve had a credit card scam operating in your backyard?”

Wilding glanced over at Field, then back at Keller. “We do.”

“Do you know who’s behind it and where its operation is?”

“That’s classified.”

“Why, because some big-shot politicians got taken to the cleaners?”

“What do you know about that?”

412 KEN MERRELL

“I know quite a bit. I know who did it and why.”

“You already turned your facts over to the press once, why wouldn’t you do it again?”

Reverend Keller smiled and  looked around the room. “Gentlemen, for the price  you pay two of your
agents a year, I feed  half the homeless in Vegas. I know more about this  city than all your agents
combined. If I  wanted a bunch of  reporters and journalists to know  what I know, I’d  give it to
them.” His tone, rather than being conceited, was more than a bit irritated.

“Isn’t that a bit presumptuous?”

The reverend dropped his gaze. “Yes, I’m sorry. I get carried away occasionally and forget I’m
just a servant.”

“It’s obvious you have connections, and information.”

“With the help  of God and my friends, I  can give you Vincent Domenico and  enough information to
put him away for good.”

“What do you want in return?”

“One simple thing: immunity for my parishioners.”

“That’s a tall ticket.”

“It’ll cover the murders of three people and save a young girl’s life.”

Wilding needed time  to think. “Why don’t you  give us a few minutes to  discuss it.” Reverend
Keller left the room and Barnes closed the door.

“We don’t need him,  sir,” insisted Barnes. “We’ve already got  all the information he’s
got.”

Wilding wasn’t so sure. “How close are we to cracking the case?”

“Trenton Ritter  will give  us Vincent  Domenico and the  murder weapon.  We make  his fifty-grand
subject to our obtaining the weapon and body.”

“Suppose he can’t produce?”

“We take what we can get and string him up with the rest of them.”

“What about the girl?”

Barnes fought  to maintain  an optimistic  voice. “That’s where  it’s tricky.  We’ve already
identified the  two thugs from  Jersey. They flew  into town a couple  of days ago.  We’re getting
close.”

“How close?”

“They ate breakfast at Denny’s this morning.”

“And the other murders?”

“The chemicals from Jimmy’s bones match the solvent used in the body

THE IDENTITY CHECK

413

shop. The girls at  Kitty’s swear that Clint was the father of  the dead hooker’s child. We’ll
bring him in right after we wrap up Vinnie.”

“And what about the credit cards?”

“Kitty will sink that ship to get out from under it all. We just don’t know where they moved the
shop to yet.”

“Is Domenico still here?”

“Nah, his  attorney made bail  as soon as  it was  set. He doesn’t  get his piece  back, though.
We’re keeping it as  possible evidence.” Barnes hesitated. “I have to admit,  sir, the look on
his face when he saw his flattened car slide off the wrecker was worth a week’s pay.”

“We could arrange that,” Field teased.

The  men in  the room  all gave  a knowing  chuckle. Wilding  continued, “You  think Mitch  Wilson
murdered Hales?”

Barnes carefully considered the question before responding.  “He was packing the body in the trunk
of his car;  he had Hales’ gun and  badge on him; it  was documented on film that  they’d had an
argument. . . . Wilson may not be the killer,  but he’s dirty–I know it. We can’t let him walk
scotfree. If he’d just cooperate with us. . . .”

“Mr.  Cox,” Wilding  said, turning  to the  prosecuting attorney–who  up until  that time  had
remained uncharacteristically quiet–“what do you think?”

“With a gun and a  body, we can go for life,” Cox began, speaking  in legalese. “It all hinges
on the evidence as a whole, of course. If Wilson’s willing to cooperate, like Barnes is saying, we
could reduce the sentence substantially–maybe to 15-to-20 years.”

Wilding turned back to Barnes. “Proceed as usual. Keep me posted. Get a fax out to every casino in
the city. Have them report any suspicious activity involving credit cards. We’re going to take the
heat from the congressman on this one.”

“And the reverend?”

“Tell him we’ll be back with him.”

“Yes, sir.”

On his  way out of  Barnes’s office, Wilding  nodded at Reverend Keller,  who was standing  by the
drinking fountain, listening to an employee bare her soul. The woman bolted at the sight of the boss
from the  upper floor. “Stop by  the kitchen sometime,  Sister,” the reverend called  after her.
“We can always use a helping hand.” She nodded and backed away, disappearing around a cubical.

414 KEN MERRELL

Barnes approached  the reverend  and politely  informed him that,  as much  as they  appreciated his
offer, they were  apt to decline. New  information on the case was  rolling in and they  would be in
touch if they needed any further help.

“Be careful,” Keller said. “Vinnie’s a wicked man.  He’ll do whatever he feels he needs to
do to save himself and protect his honor.”

“We can take  care of Mr. Domenico,” Barnes  assured his God-fearing guest. “You  take care of
your flock.”

“I will, you can bet on it.”

“And Reverend, don’t do  anything illegal. We’d rather not have to arrest  one of our city’s
fine advocates of the homeless.”

The reverend stepped out into  the harsh sunlight. The new hand he’d been  dealt had no face cards
in it;  things weren’t going as  planned. He peered  up at a  passing cloud and whispered  a quiet
prayer. The sunshine warmed his tired face, renewing him. The corners of his mouth lifted as he bent
his head and scurried to his van.

Feted with  lasagna and creamed corn  from the cafeteria, Ritter  lay against the wall  in interview
one, fast asleep, the lifestyle of the rich  and famous permeating his dreams. In the happy recesses
of his mind he  could picture himself back in Yorkshire, doing nothing  but spotting trains with his
kid brother.

“Well, Mr. Ritter,” boomed Barnes as he entered the room. “Looks like we’ve got a deal.”

Ritter awoke with a start, snorted, and sat up. “Spot on, mate. . . . You book me flight?”

“Got your ticket right here.” The agent dropped an  itinerary on the table. Stapled to it was an
envelope containing a one-way ticket to London. “Redeye flight to New York.”

“Me mum’ll be a happy one, she will.”

“You’ve got to sign the docs.”

“You ain’t said nothin’ ‘bout any docs.”

“Government red tape.”

Ritter turned a wary eye. “You wire the funds?”

“They’ll go out as soon as these are signed.”

Ritter heaved himself up off the floor and held the  papers up to his foggy eyes, trying to focus on
the small print. “Need me glasses. . . .”

“Where are they?”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

415

“Back in me flat. Don’t read much these days.”

“Agent Horne can give you a ride.”

“I’d like to have me friend look this over, too. . . .”

National flight 70, from Reagan airport in Washington  to Las Vegas, had been delayed by the endless
bag checks  and lines of  additional security.  Finally, after a  three-hour wait, during  which two
first-class businessmen had been bumped in favor of two other travelers, the 747 was off the ground.
The additional 40-minute wait out on the tarmac had set all the passengers on edge; two were getting
particularly testy. The quiet conversation between Congressman  MacArthur and his wife Levina had at
times become rather heated.  A gaggle of other first-class passengers  pretended not to listen–but
often could not help but do otherwise.

“She probably  didn’t want you  to know  because she knew  how you’d react,”  whispered Mrs.
MacArthur, her slender features showing the years of submission to the powerful man.

“She’s embarrassed  me again,  Levina–this time on  national television. I  told you  that boy
would be no good. I’ll get the marriage annulled. . . .”

“You’ll do  no such  thing, Dalton.”  She took  a sip  of her  soda and  took in  several deep
breaths, hoping to jettison the weight of the load from her mind.

“I beg your pardon!” He glanced around in embarrassment from the outburst and rested his hand on
hers.

“You’ll do no such thing,” she repeated, this  time more loudly. “Not if you want me smiling
by your side. . . . I’ve had enough.”

“Shh, Levina, hold it down . . .”

“No, I won’t. This has gone on too long . . .”

“This discussion  can wait until  we land.” Dalton MacArthur  kept his domineering  hand clasped
tightly over hers.

“No, it won’t wait.  This is our daughter we’re talking about, not  your career or a promotion
or  just another  political gambit  or  another voting  district.  She’s my  child–and yours.  I
haven’t seen  her in three  years. . .  .” Levina pulled  her hand away.  “Let go of  me; that
hurts.” An open can of  Diet Coke tumbled from the tray and fizzed out  onto the floor, bringing a
gracious flight  attendant to the rescue.  The congressman’s wife  turned her gaze to  the window,
sobbing silently. An awkward  hush fell over the first-class compartment.  The jetliner started into
its final descent.

416 KEN MERRELL

Nurse sweated it  out under her cotton dress  and rayon slip. After their meager  breakfast, she and
Sound had  gone on to hit  three casinos. Now on  their fourth, something was  definitely amiss. The
Aladdin’s teller was taking a few extra minutes to process her card. It was then Sound noticed her
dentures were missing, forgotten in the drawer at The Palace.

“Why didn’t ya’ say somethin’?” Nurse cussed  under her breath. “I ain’t never worn no
teeth ‘fore. I ain’t used t’ ‘em.”

Sound coughed, then went on the defensive. “I’m  more accustomed to seeing you without them than
you are. I  didn’t even notice.” He coughed  again. Profuse droplets of sweat ran  down his high
forehead. Nurse stopped her henpecking. “Ain’t yer  fault. I’m th’ one shoved ‘em in th’
drawer. . . . You feelin’ okay?

“Just a little hot. I’ll be fine.”

“Don’t look fine.”

“I just need to sit down a few minutes.” He ambled away from the teller window and hiked himself
up onto  a slot-machine  stool. Nurse watched  as he  swabbed his  brow and neck  with a  napkin and
stuffed it  back in  his pocket.  Panic spread  across her  toothless scowl  when security  from the
Aladdin approached and asked her for a second picture ID.  . . . In his office, Barnes took the call
from the  Aladdin Hotel  and Casino. It  turned out to  be the  most profitable interruption  of the
afternoon. The card was  good, reported the casino’s head of security,  but the odd-looking couple
taking the cash sure seemed nervous. An old  woman without teeth together with a slim, fuzzy-headed,
sickly-looking man fit the description being passed among two dozen agents in the briefing room.

“Get a photo  off the casino’s security camera,”  ordered Barnes, a bit of a  flourish back in
his commands.  “We’ll distribute it by  fax as soon  as it comes from  the lab. The rest  of you
start scouring the Strip. They’re  using the credit cards of a rich woman  from New York. The real
Margaret Thurston just spent the morning at the hospital with her father.”

Back at  the Aladdin, the guard  turned the eccentric old  woman and her companion  loose. It turned
out  she  didn’t have  any  additional  ID,  but her  other  credit  cards–of  which she  had  a
purse-full–were all legit. Though  it started out as a clumsy attempt  at reconciliation, it ended
up a most poignant reunion. It was their first opportunity to really sit down and

THE IDENTITY CHECK

417

talk in over fifty years. Throughout all that time  they had been decent to each other, but the love
had long-since been buried. When Eddie had called and asked her to come out, she really had to force
herself into  it. He’d  seemed strained, or  was it  just that  he was getting  old? For  days now
she’d faithfully come to the hospital, each morning, noon and night. It was the honorable thing to
do. He  was her father; she,  his only child. But  now that he was  doing better, it was  time to go
home. She’d booked a flight back to New York for the next day.

“I’ve got to tell you why I called,” Eddie  said as Margaret propped a second pillow under his
head. It was clear that his opening line had  been carefully thought out. “I’ve been too hard on
you over the years.”

Margaret sat down and crossed her legs. “I don’t suppose I’ve been easy to deal with.”

A lump formed in the old man’s throat. “The boy’s bad blood isn’t your fault.”

“Thank you for noticing.”

“He’s been into drugs.”

“Yes, I know . . . since age twelve.”

“I thought I could change him.” Eddie sat up a bit more, wincing from the pain.

Margaret’s head shook  involuntarily. “I couldn’t change  him, and half the  therapists in New
York couldn’t. Did you think you were Superman or something?”

“You always gave him too much.”

“Like you did me?”

“I made a mistake; spoiled you rotten. You were a long way from home. . . .”

“I would rather have been home. I didn’t have anybody to confide in.”

“I couldn’t keep you here.”

“I know, I  know. I’ve heard it a thousand  times. Family Services would have taken  me away . .
.”

“They would have.”

The woman fought for the  right words. “And–and maybe it would have been  better for both of us.
At least I would’ve known you loved me. The way you  sent me away . . . it felt like you wanted to
get rid of me. You couldn’t stand the thought of keeping me around.”

Eddie’s eyes began to leak tears. “That’s not true. . . . It broke my 418 KEN MERRELL

heart to send you away. You were the only thing I still loved.”

Margaret softened. She, too, blinked, then turned away. “Then . . . why?”

He let out a raspy sigh. “I took a good look at the lifestyle I was living; I saw how rough it was
on you. You were already using foul language at five. I couldn’t give you what you needed.”

“I needed you. I’d already lost my mother. I  needed the only parent I ever knew, not some fancy
boarding school teaching proper  etiquette and fancy music classes and voice  lessons and French and
violin. I needed my dad.” Margaret began to tear  up for real. “Yes, I got a good education, and
for that I thank you. But what I really needed–and still need–is you. I wanted you to tuck me in
at night and sing me  your silly songs. I wanted to see you shuffle your  feet like you did before a
big fight and let me give you good-luck kisses. I wanted you to come back to the locker room and let
me clean the blood off your face and–and tell me . . . you won . . . just for me.”

Tears flowed freely now, on both sides. They seeped down into Eddie’s curled moustache and dripped
off his  chin. They streaked the  mascara on Margaret’s lashes  and soaked into the  fabric of her
blouse. A few words came from under the sodden moustache. “I’m . . . sorry. I made a mistake.”

“You did–and  it broke my  heart. Over the  years I  learned to protect  my own heart  from you.
I’ve always been one to guard my feelings.”

“How can you ever forgive me?”

Margaret began to sob even more fiercely. “I don’t know  . . . if I can. A hundred therapists at
a hundred bucks an hour . . . couldn’t help me.”

“I’m sorry, Margaret. I’m sorry. . . . I love you.”

Margaret stood  and faced  the window. Her  hand was  pressed up  to her mouth  and her  body shook.
“Come here, Margie.  Come over here and  let me hold my little  girl.” The old man  held out his
arms, loose folds of skin sagging under his once powerful biceps.

“Say that again,” came the faint request.

“What?”

“Say it again.”

“Come . . . let me hold my little girl?”

Margaret turned slightly. “The part . . . before that.”

“Come here, Margie?”

“You haven’t called me Margie in fifty years.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

419

Eddie let  out a  muffled grunt, remembering  the smell  of floor wax  in the  principal’s office.
“The school told me not to. It wasn’t proper.”

“All those years . . . that’s all I would have needed to have known you still loved me.”

“Oh, dear me, how I  loved you. In the first year or two after you  were gone, most nights I cried
myself to sleep.”

“Becky told me. She said sometimes she could hear you out in the alley.” Margaret slid the chair
up closer to the bed and gently draped  herself across the old man’s chest, silently committing to
memory the  rhythmic beat  of his weary  heart, the  feel of his  skinny arms–and  remembering the
tender words he’d just spoken. Eddie lay still, scarcely breathing, eyes closed, taking it all in,
basking  in the  pain from  the weight  on his  body.  It was  the good  sort of  pain, the  healing
type–sort of like a massage. Besides, he could take any degree of suffering, now that his daughter
was back.

A half-hour  later, when  all the  tears were  shed and  both hearts  warmed, the  old man  held his
daughter’s hands in his own.  “Now that I know how much you love me,”  he began, “I hope you
still feel the same when I tell you why I called you here.”

“What is it?”

Eddie gripped her hands a little tighter. “I’m going to testify against Clint.”

“What’s he done now?”

“The reason I fell down the shaft was because I was running for my life.”

“Clint was going to kill you?”

“Now that I’ve had time  to think about it, I don’t think so. Since  then, on one occasion, he
actually protected me from getting hurt.”

“What, then?”

“He’s been running a credit card scam down  in the gym’s basement. The dirtbag he partnered up
with, he was the one that was going to kill me.”

Margaret’s head gave a shake. “Why doesn’t that surprise me?”

“You better bring your husband to town. Your son is going to need a good lawyer.”

Her reply  came with a  sense of relief.  “Maybe they  can learn to  get along after  all. Clinton
hasn’t had a good battle in years. Fighting for his son might be precisely what they both need.”

420 KEN MERRELL

FORTY-SIX

THE ABANDONED BUILDING embodied  the entire neighborhood: hard and empty,  dismal and destitute. The
crack heads barely flinched  at the sight of the police car pulling  up beside the broken chain-link
gate. They’d  seen it so  many times before.  The cops came, busted,  then released. To  the crack
heads it didn’t matter. No, all that mattered was the high they were on at the moment, a high that
would have  to keep them up  until the next score.  That was how it  was on the street.  Steal, buy,
blow; steal, buy,  blow. . . .  Smack of glass, a joint,  a needle, whatever was  going around would
have to do.

Ritter climbed  from the  car. “Best you  wait here,  mate,” he said,  looking back  through the
window at Horne. “They don’t think much a’ your kind in this neighborhood.”

Horne beckoned  to his  passenger. “The  ticket–you best  leave it  in the  car ‘til  you come
back.”

The cocky Brit  flicked the envelope onto  the seat and lit  out. Through the twisted  gate he went,
across the yard, stopping to speak with each junky in his path. “You seen Errol? . . . How ‘bout
you, ya’ seen Errol?”  The larger part of the wasted few were  hardly aware someone was speaking
to them. The rest merely shook their heads in either calloused contempt or detached indifference.

When Ritter jimmied open the back door of the old processing building, the stench nearly knocked him
to his  knees. Black  clouds of flies  swarmed around piles  of human  waste near the  entrance. The
druggies and street people called the tactic “cheap security,” a guard against trespassers, cops
and other unwanted visitors. But Ritter was no ordinary knucklehead. He knew what it was all about.

Tiptoeing past  the repugnant room, he  left what air escaped  his lungs behind. By  the time he’d
climbed up to the second floor, the new air  he breathed in was only slightly better than the first.
“You seen Errol?” he asked twice more, before receiving an affirmative reply.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

421

“In the head, smokin’ a pipe”–this from a young man of no more than 17, glassy-eyed and also
on his way up the steps.

Ritter pushed open the  bathroom door. There, sitting on a rusty folding  chair and sucking the last
high from a stubby pipe, was Errol. Though ten years Ritter’s junior and with facial features that
matched right down the line, dark rings circled his vacant eyes. Ritter’s animated demeanor belied
the squalor of the setting. “Errol, I scored  real good!” he enthused. The other man shifted his
gaze away from his dim shadow on the wall.

“Hey, Trent, long time. . . .”

“It’s been a  bloomin’ week, Errol! Listen,  mate.” Ritter grabbed him by  the shoulders and
shook. “I scored a double-header, a hot batch. Look, I even bought a new suit.”

“Ruddy fine threads, too.”

“Errol, you remember Reverend Keller?”

“Sure do,” he slurred in reply. “Runnin’ the lunch over on Stewart.”

“That’s ‘im. He has your share a’ me smack.”

“You’re  me man!”  Errol stuck  his hand  up to  deliver a  high-five. Ritter  complied rather
ineptly. “Listen, Errol. You go see him ‘bout  ten o’clock. Got that? He’s got a package for
ya’.”

“‘Bout ten?”

“That’s right. Go see ‘im ‘bout ten, he’ll give you a smack a’ glass in a box.”

“Bloody thanks!” Errol yammered, holding his hand up for yet another slap.

“That’s what brothers are for.”

Safely back  in the undercover FBI  van, Ritter requested that  Horne make one more  stop–this one
near the  Rio bridge, where  he dislodged his  old passport from its  hiding place under  a railroad
tie–before driving down Stewart  to Keller’s soup kitchen. Stopping in front  of the rather drab
gym, Horne climbed from the  car and followed Ritter down the driveway to  the back door. Inside the
kitchen  stood Cook,  nervously  scanning a  shelf  lined  with gallon  jugs  of orange  juice–all
unrefrigerated.

“Hi, Cook. Where’s the reverend?”

“He ain’t here. What do you want?”

“I just got’s t’ chat wit’ him.”

“Won’t be back for an hour.”

Ritter glanced back at Horne. Keeping his distance, he’d remained 422 KEN MERRELL

out on  the steps. “You mind?”  he said, caustically. “I  need a bit a  privacy here.” Horne
backed off the steps and into the alley, where he could keep an eye on his mark through the window.

“Cook, I got a program  set up back in England. It’ll help me  brother get off drugs–you know,
clean up his lot.”

Cook leered  out at the  agent glancing  nervously at the  fridge–a fridge filled  with–well not
orange-juice. “What’d you bring him here for?”

Ritter reached  inside his  jacket and  took out  an envelope.  He held  it out  and tried  to steer
Cook’s mind onto  the important matter at hand.  “Listen, mate, you got t’ give  this t’ the
reverend. He needs  t’ put me brother Errol on  a plane. They’ll pick him up  in London and lock
‘im down. They’ll  think he’s me. .  . . Now here’s  me passport and the  agreement with the
man. Make sure  Reverend calls the program t’ tell  ‘em me brother’s on his way.  As soon as I
help nail  Vinnie, then  they’ll pay.  Please, Cook,”  he begged,  “make sure  he gets  on the
flight. It’ll save his life.”

“I’ll tell him. You just get the cop outta here.”

“I’m goin’, mate.  Just make sure Reverend Keller  calls the program t’ tell  ‘em when the
plane gets in. The money will be wired soon.”

Reverend Keller knocked on the faded turquoise door.  The sleazy sounds of illicit lust exhaled from
the cracks in the windows and doors and  past the throbbing vibrations of the dripping swamp cooler.
The pungent  smells of alcohol, tobacco  and drunkenness stung  the fetid air. After  a considerable
delay, a garbled voice called out, “It ain’t locked!”

Keller eased the door open and peered into the murky trailer. Bino, his red and puffy eyes, didn’t
look up from the porno flick. The slender man fumbled  to light a cigarette with one hand and took a
swig from  a bottle clenched  in the other.  Two empty bottles  lay askew on  the floor next  to the
recliner; the ash tray that normally rested on the other side of the chair had toppled over onto the
carpet.

“I’ve been sent to find you, Bernalillo!” the reverend’s voice thundered through the noxious
room. Bino squinted over at the man who’d  barged into his home. Bright sunlight streamed into the
room, past the dark dressed angel standing in the doorway. “Who the hell are you?”

“A friend.”

Bino scoffed. “I don’t need no friends.”

“But I do.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

423

“Go away.”

“I can’t. I  need a gambler.” Keller walked  over and turned off the lurid  scenes flashing on
the screen.

“Sorry. You’ve got the wrong man. I quit.”

“Like you quit drinking?”

“Go away, preacher. You can’t save me.”

“We’ll see.” With that, he seized the slender drunk by the belt and the back of the collar and
catapulted  him out  the door.  His  broad shoulders  and  bulky forearms–acquired  from years  of
cranking pipes–came  in handy as  he muscled Bino  into the van. Then  he returned to  the squalid
trailer to retrieve the all-important oxygen tank. After a quick two-hour nap, three pots of coffee,
a cold shower, a shave and a  haircut–administered by the preacher’s wife–and a borrowed suit,
the former gambler was once more presentable. Reverend Keller’s next stop was the drugstore, where
he picked up a couple  of boxes of nicotine patches. Returning home, he  lined both of Bino’s arms
with them to stop the unsteady smoke stack from blowing the deal.

“You’ve got an hour to get your act together,” the preacher said brusquely.

“Your daughter’s  life depends  on you giving  the performance  of your career.  And I  hope you
haven’t forgotten how to bluff.”

“It won’t  work,” Bino kept mumbling.  “I met the  man once. Mr. Domenico–he’s  a harder
case than his nephew. The old boss will kill us both.”

“Not if you do your job right.”

Political  feathers  hit the  fan  of  justice when  Congressman  MacArthur  flew into  the  Federal
Building–on one broken wing–and  demanded to see the person in charge. For  the next 20 minutes,
while Wilding and his secretary rearranged his workload, the congressman nursed his wounded pride by
pacing back and forth in the foyer. First, he’d suffered the bruised ego of publicly being accused
of credit card  fraud; now he felt personally embarrassed  by the fact that his wife  had refused to
stand by him through  his terrible ordeal. While he’d waited for their  luggage at baggage claims,
she had hailed a cab and promptly disappeared without saying a word.

MacArthur bluntly explained  the reason for his  visit–and was rebuffed just  as bluntly. “I’m
sorry, Congressman,  your daughter’s  not a  minor and she  has the  right to  privacy,” Wilding
replied when he’d had just 424 KEN MERRELL

about enough of  the congressman’s posturing. “When  my agents did a background  check and found
out who she was, they asked if they should contact  you. Frankly, I can see why she didn’t want us
to.”

“You realize I can go over your head?”

“You already did that. That’s why you’re here.”

“This is an outrage,” he harangued, pummeling the desk with the palm of his hand.

Wilding sprang to  his feet. “Sir, you’ve exceeded  my level of tolerance. I  suggest you change
your methods and work on your manners with me  and with your daughter–that is, if you want to have
a relationship with her.  In the meantime, I have work  to do.” He turned to see  his guest to the
door.

Defeated by  his lesser  opponent, the  congressman mellowed. “I  just want  what’s best  for my
daughter.”

Wilding paused in the doorway. “I’m sure you do, sir.”

“Will you give her a message?”

“And what would that be?”

“Her mother’s heart is breaking. Will she at least consider seeing her?”

“I’ll relay the message.”

Four o’clock had come  and gone before Sutton brought Stephanie into  the Federal Building. Maggie
was sent  home with the promise  that Vinnie was  now under control.  And with Mitch locked  up, any
further risk  was minimal. Stephanie sized  up the situation. The  message from her father  had been
delivered via radio  en route to the FBI  offices. A tender-voiced woman dispatcher  had relayed it,
word-forword, over the line. If the emotional roller  coaster wasn’t already at its peak, then the
thought of speaking with  her parents sent it still higher. And seeing  Mitch again, that would send
it skyrocketing out of control. She was led to a small interview room on the second floor. It had no
windows  to the  outside, only  a  tiny pane  in the  door. Thin  fingers  of wire  embedded in  the
translucent glass zig-zagged at  right angles to one another across the  opening. Light filtering in
from the  hall cast  oversized patterns of  shadow and  light on the  floor. Several  quiet moments,
alone, left time for reflection. The tangle of events and information, claims and counterclaims kept
returning to her brain.  It all seemed too complicated. As expected, when  the door opened and Mitch
stepped into the room,

THE IDENTITY CHECK

425

the roller  coaster started on  its downward spiral.  A split second  elapsed while he  assessed the
damages he’d inflicted on  her. Then he engulfed her in his arms.  “It’s almost over, Stef,”
he whispered, a strained smile stretched across his flushed cheeks.

The moment was both awkward  and too abrupt, as Stephanie pulled away and  dried her cheeks with her
fingers. “I need to hear  it from you, Mitch. Just tell it to me straight.  Did you kill Mike? Did
you do any of those terrible things they say you did?”

Mitch leaned back,  still clinging to her shoulders,  and stared into her deep, sad  eyes. “Do you
really need to ask?”

She surveyed his face,  seeking any hint of deception. Maggie’s words came  to mind. Could she see
far enough  inside him to know  his heart?Or did she  already know? Digging still  deeper, she could
feel the answers to her questions come alive. They grew and flowered inside her, like the tiny seeds
that had sprung  from him to her  several months earlier. A rush  of tingles surged up  and down her
spine, then came to rest in her eyes–a soft,  twinkling glow. She knew, at that very moment and in
an intimate way  she couldn’t explain, Mitch’s  heart. “No,” she said.  Stephanie raised her
slender arms and pressed her palms against his cheeks  and ears. Their lips met in a lingering kiss.
. . .

“I missed you,” Mitch finally said as he held  his bride close. “I know we can get through all
this because we have each other.”

The half-hour of bliss flew  by. The guard arrived and hauled Mitch away.  But for Stephanie a union
of hearts had  taken place, one that  any temporary isolation couldn’t  erase. Heartfelt apologies
for withholding some of the truth were warmly accepted and no-holds-barred explanations had supplied
the much-needed missing pieces to the puzzle. The  guard reappeared to escort her out into the hall.
She lagged  behind, her way of  postponing what was next  on her agenda, and–in  a more subliminal
way–to continue to soak in the overpowering feeling of love which she’d just experienced.

Finally forcing  herself from  the room,  she went  to place the  call. It  wouldn’t be  easy. The
face-to-face meeting later on would be even harder.  Two coins from her purse clinked into the slot.
A long, apprehensive  sigh streamed from her heaving chest.  A click came from the other  end of the
line. “Hello, Mother?”

The routine was the same in every restroom at every casino. Every few 426 KEN MERRELL

hours Sound  would casually  walk into  the bathroom and  enter a  predetermined stall.  Cap’n was
always there, sitting on an adjacent toilet,  ready to transfer the semi-laundered cash. The current
stop would be their last, Sound was informed by way of a piece of toilet tissue scribbled with black
ink and flicked under the divider. The briefcase was full; it was time to make their get-away.

Cap’n rented a room on the 7th floor. After signaling Nurse with his fingers what number they were
in, he shrewdly slipped  her the key. In the elevator on their  way up, Sound’s coughing worsened.
Intermittent spasms of coughs  and wheezes brought silent glares from  their fellow passengers. When
the last guests  exited the lift on  the 5th floor, Nurse  gave him a fretful  stare. “Boy, it’s
time ya’ take a rest.”

“It’s getting worse,” he gasped. “I thought last time was bad. . . .”

The veins in his hands bulging, he gripped the handrail in the corner of the compartment.

“You’ve endured lots a’ sufferin’. Don’t worry none, we can get ya’

through this.”

“You remember what you promised last time?”

Nurse stuck her nose in the air as if she were sniffing a bad smell.

“Sorry, promises ain’t valid when made under duress.”

Sound brought his hand up, palm forward. “I don’t want needles shoved in my lungs again.”

“It bought a year.”

“Yeah, the  best year of  my life, too.”  The wheezing  intensified. “But this  time . .  . is
different. This time I’m standing at the door. . . .”

When the elevator doors parted, Nurse’s feet remained glued to the floor. She stared into the open
hallway, loathing to leave  the elevator. Sound stepped between the door and  the wall and swivelled
unsteadily on his heels, facing her. He leaned  up against the door’s rubber safety rail and said,
“I’ve got to go through.” Then he turned and hobbled down the hall.

The  old woman  shuffled after  him,  reached out  and pulled  his  slender arm  across her  stooped
shoulder. “It still ain’t fair,” she yapped.

“I knew the risks.”

Nurse inserted the  card in the key slot  and pushed the door open, still  mumbling, “Just ain’t
fair–ain’t fair t’ th’ rest a’ us . . .”

Staggering inside, Sound hunched over and crumpled onto the bed, coughing. In truth, it was barely a
cough at all–more like a deep-seated

THE IDENTITY CHECK

427

hacking, a feeble attempt to clear the fluid building up in his lungs. “The doctor said this would
happen,” he whispered. “If it started again . . . they’d fill up fast.”

Nurse propped  several pillows up against  the headboard and  helped Sound get comfortable.  A knock
came at the door. “‘At’d be Cap’n,”

Nurse said as she scurried to answer it.

Cap’n lunged inside  and quickly re-bolted the lock.  He was breathing hard. “Got  cops all over
the foyer!”

Nurse shot him a worried glance. “Must a’ found us.”

“Only be a few minutes ‘fore they figure out where we is.”

“This here’s a big hotel, Cap’n. At’s why we chose her.”

The big man plopped down and stared down at the pallid figure on the bed. “Bad, ain’t it?”

Sound picked  the remote up off  the nightstand and pressed  the top button. The  hotel viewing menu
came up on  the television, along with a display  of the time. “His plane ought  to be landing any
minute,” he croaked.

“T’ hell with the plane,” Cap’n groused. “You’s sick again, ain’t ya’?”

His breathing labored and  shallow, Sound coughed again, a puny puff of  air that was almost silent.
“You finish your . . . mission, Cap’n. . . . I’ll be fine.”

Cap’n dropped  to his knees  and half crawled  across the floor.  “Your lungs ‘r  fillin’ up
again, ain’t they?”

Four slim  fingers and a skeletal  thumb came to  rest on the  big man’s meaty hand,  which sagged
lifelessly on  the bed. “We’ve had  some good times  . . . haven’t  we? . . .”  Sound paused
between breaths. “We’ve seen . . . some awesome battles, Cap’n.”

“Ain’t over,” called out the ex-soldier, as if he could command health and spirit and vitality
back into the  gaunt body. “They ain’t over. .  . . Nurse, do somethin’.” He  peered over at
his wise old friend, alligator tears streaming down his cheeks.

“Ya’ want him t’ be more comfortable, ya’ can help him t’ his feet,”

said Nurse. “Gets th’ lungs cleared out.”

Cap’n stood  up and bent to  gently lift the  bony body up.  Sound groaned with pain  when Cap’n
reached around his rib cage and brought him to  his feet, face to face, supporting his weight on his
thick chest. “You been hurt?”

Cap’n demanded. “Somebody hurt you, Sound? I’ll string ‘em up by the yardarm!”

Sound slouched up against Cap’n, his arms sticking out at his side, a 428 KEN MERRELL

veritable stick  of a scarecrow.  With his torso  stretched, Sound breathed  a bit easer.  “I just
banged my ribs  a bit. . . .” The  color slowly began to return to  Sound’s flaxen face. “That
feels better, Cap’n. . . . Thank you.”

Cap’n’s slick  head wrinkled  in thought. “You  two was talkin’  ‘bout it  this mornin’,
wasn’t you? Didn’t want  me to know. . . .  Why?” A fragile hush fell over  the room. A watery
substance from Sound’s nose and eyes had begun to trickle down, saturating both men’s shirts.

Nurse clambered up onto the bed to wrap her arms around her ‘boys,’

her skinny arms pinning their heads to her breast. “Just didn’t want ya’

fussin’, ’s all,”

Cap’n looked up at Nurse,  terror etched in his eyes. “You’re lyin’. It  was me that did it,
wasn’t it? When  I gave him the elbow th’  other day. I banged him up  real good, didn’t I?”
Still propping up his  best buddy, he broke down, sobbing uncontrollably. “I  done killed you. . .
.”

Sound patted his  friend’s back. “It’s okay, Cap’n.  It could have been anything. .  . . Now
you’ve got to stop shaking me, or put me back down.”

Cap’n sucked in a bottomless breath and reined in  the sobs, the tears still melting down his big,
black face.  Then this  powerful man,  whose arms  had crushed  the life  right out  of one  man and
rendered another  helpless, stood stock-still, his  vice-like arms lovingly encircled  about a third
man in the  futile hope of adding hours to  his life, even while his heart  was breaking. Barnes’s
juggling act was  not going too well. Besides not  being that popular of an attraction  on the Vegas
stage  show circuit,  juggling four  balls  at once  was not  his  forte. That  would be  electronic
surveillance.  Anyway, now  he was  enmeshed in  trying  to run  a manhunt,  managing an  undercover
operation, keeping  a continual watch on  four or five different  individuals, and seeking a  way to
release Stephanie from protective custody, all at the same time.

Meanwhile, the mother-to-be was  contemplating how best to approach the upcoming  visit from her own
mother. Slumped in the  waiting room, she wrestled with her latest decision.  She would reach out to
hug her mother . . . or maybe not. Perhaps the cold-shoulder treatment would be more effective. What
she really wanted to do  was greet her with a hard slap in the kisser.  The rejection she felt three
years before had been the hardest thing she’d ever had to deal with.

Her mind  harkened back  to the last  time she  saw her  parents. Her father  had been  furious. She
didn’t want his money, his car, his home, his promi-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

429

nence. She didn’t want anything from him, except his love and blessing–which he refused to give.
He’d stormed about the four-car  garage as she loaded the last of her things  in the little car, a
gift from Mitch, one of pure love, no strings attached. That was when her father had jumped into his
Mercedes and squealed  off down the street. Before  punching the gas, he’d rolled  down his window
and  sneered, “Don’t  you come  crawling back  when  things don’t  work out  with your  gigolo
boyfriend.”

The bitter words  had cut deep. She’d  looked to her mother,  standing in the door  leading to the
kitchen,  for support,  to  come to  her  rescue–if not  directly,  at least  a  token gesture  of
encouragement,  some bit  of comfort.  But there  was none.  She had  just stood  there without  the
slightest evidence of sympathy or understanding, too afraid of her husband, too controlled by him.

Since that day,  there had been no contact of  any kind. No calls, no apologies,  nothing to suggest
they felt any differently. Her father, with all his  power and notoriety, could have found them in a
heartbeat. But he hadn’t. He couldn’t admit to being wrong. He couldn’t stand the thought that
she’d chosen to live  without the wealth and comforts he could offer.  Now, just like that, he’d
sent a  message. Was it  a genuine attempt  at reconciliation? Or was  it to flaunt  their emotional
distance at her? At the ring of the elevator  bell Stephanie looked up, as she had done the previous
ten times it had sounded. The doors parted  and a very attractive, fashionably dressed woman stepped
from  the lift,  alone. Red  nails and  matching  red lipstick  augmented her  flawless white  skin.
Stephanie studied the  anticipation and angst garnishing  her mothers face as her  eyes darted about
the room. At last they locked onto her daughter, who struggled up from the armchair.

The  reticence  was but  momentary.  The  older  woman  contemplated Stephanie’s  maternal  state,
then–any lingering apprehension evaporating into the cosmos–she dropped her handbag on the floor
and  rushed over  to an  embrace she’d  been without  far too  long. Nearly  a bucketful  of tears
followed before  it occurred  to the grandmother-to-be,  wholly and inexorably,  that she  loved her
daughter with a  limitless, never-ending, unconditional love. A plastic-coated  transmitter the size
of a dime had been stitched into Ritter’s belt. Immune to any means of conventional bug detection,
it was the FBI’s way of tracking their key informant’s movements. 430 KEN MERRELL

Ritter-the-snitch received  from Barnes  his last-minute  pep-talk. “We’ve  pulled out  the team
monitoring Vinnie’s activities,”  he was informed. “We’ll be following  you from a distance.
If we’re able to predict where you’re headed, we’ll put in place a team out front as well.”

Ritter reiterated his intention to keep his ace firmly tucked up his sleeve.

“Now don’t go tryin’ t’ figure out all my secrets, mate. I ain’t goin’ t’ tell ya’

nothin’ ‘til my money’s  secure. If you knew everything I knew, you  wouldn’t bloody need me
no more,  would you?  And then I  wouldn’t get  paid the fifty-grand  and live like  a king  in me
homeland, would I?”

Barnes hustled his snitch toward the office door. “Where’d you put the plane ticket?”

“Left it in the Reverend’s care t’ make  sure you keep your word. Don’t want no double-cross
in’goin’ on now, do  we? Wouldn’t want the U.S. Federal Government  takin’ advantage a’ no
homeless redcoat.”

“The contract says the body and the gun.”

“I knows  what the bloomin’ contract  says. You’ll get  ‘em both–I guarantee it.  You just
keep your word. I’ll be givin’ ya’ more than ya’

ever dreamed ‘fore the night’s over. You just wait an’ see.”

“No funny business, Ritter,” Barnes threatened.

“‘Course not. Ain’t nothin’ funny ‘bout it, mate. Nothin’ funny at all.”

The papers properly signed and notarized, Ritter was released into the hands of Vinnie’s attorney.
Spread out over  a three-block distance, the four-car  team picked up the first of  its signals from
Ritter’s belt.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

431

FORTY-SEVEN

THE OFFICES OF NEW YORK, NEW YORK–the Las Vegas

casino, that  is–were abuzz.  Its security  team had  upped the  ante, intent  on playing  an even
faster-paced, higher-stakes game of money and fun than  usual. FBI agents had been posted at various
exits and instructed  to work in concert  with regular security, all  bent on putting a  stop to the
sophisticated  yet blatant  credit-card  money-laundering scheme.  Agents assigned  to  work in  the
offices replayed dozens upon dozens of security tapes, trying to identify the perpetrators. The game
could end up being a long one, as a blanket  search warrant covering the entire hotel was out of the
question.

Head of security had  explained that all the casino’s cameras didn’t run  all the time. It would
be an impossible task even to handle the thousands of tapes per day, much less view them all. It was
Horne–not the agent  posted at the door–who  noticed the two preachers making  their way through
the lobby. One was toting  an oxygen bottle over his shoulder, his naked  upper lip suffering from a
singularly nervous twitch. The  agent quickly got on the horn and  called Barnes. “Reverend Keller
just walked in. And you won’t believe who he’s collared up to look like a preacher.”

Barnes’s ears perked up. “Keller’s in the casino?” Poor juggler that he was, he held a radio
in each hand, trying his best to shuffle two operations going down at the same time.

“Affirmative–and Bino’s at  his side, looking like  he just finished a sequel  to the original
Sermon on the Mount.”

“What the hell?” panted  Barnes, itching to be on-site. “Maybe the  good reverend isn’t what
he pretends to be. Keep back and see what’s going on. And hold off on the bust of the old woman if
you find her.”

Up on the 7th floor, that very old woman was eyeing the clock. “Time t’

go, Cap’n,” she fussed.

432 KEN MERRELL

Sound was asleep,  still in his vertical position,  breathing in quiet, wispy breaths.  His head yet
rested on  Cap’n’s broad shoulder, like  that of a  sleeping child. The strongman’s  arms felt
heavy as lead. “Can’t now. He just got t’

sleep,” he argued, slowly rocking back and forth.

“He wakes up and you ain’t done your job, there’ll be a price to pay,”

Nurse fumed. “Won’t be much use savin’ him  if’n we don’t finish the mission. None a’ it
’ll be worth a hill a’ beans.”

Cap’n disagreed. “Won’t be a mission worth finishin’ if we don’t all make it out alive.”

“We knew th’ risks back when we decided t’ take on Mr. Vinnie,”

countered Nurse.

“But the damage came from within the ranks.”

“Was Desert Storm worth fightin’?” she grumped.

“Was,” Cap’n nodded. “We kicked them Iraqi, oil-lovin’ tails back where they came from.”

“Friendlies ever take fire?” she asked.

“Did.”

“So ya’ think we should’a gived back Kuwait  jus’ ‘cause a few friendlies took it in th’
shorts?”

“Not over their oil-burnin’ hides.”

Nurse’s comparison built top to bottom, she pointed  at Sound. “Then you put him down an’ come
finish what we started; make th’ losses worth his while.”

Cap’n’s arm’s shook from fatigue as he  lowered Sound down onto the mattress. Nurse positioned
herself at the  head of the bed to  help hike his skinny  frame up to lean against  the headboard. A
little moan  came from  his parched lips.  He stirred,  opened his eyes,  and smiled.  “Thank you,
Laurence Elroy  Jackson,” he whispered,  as an ice-cold  hand pressed against  Cap’n’s flushed
cheeks. “I feel  much better. You’ve been a  good friend. It’s been a pleasure  serving in the
trenches with  you. Now  you dry your  eyes and  lift your  chin.” Sound brushed  a tear  from the
fleshy, black  cheek. “When I  get through the  door, I’ll tell the  Big Man upstairs  you never
meant to hurt anyone. I know you have a heart of gold. God knows it too.”

“You hang in there ‘til I get back,” said Cap’n, stabbing at the air with his index finger.

“I’ll be here with bells on my toes.”

Nurse brought in a glass of water and set it on the nightstand.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

433

“Thanks,” said Sound, patting her hand.

Cap’n shuffled  stiffly from the  bed into the  bathroom. Cupping his hands  under a flow  of cold
water, he drew it  up to his face, head and  neck. Over and over again he  splashed himself with the
cleansing liquid.  When this  prolonged baptism was  completed, he  took a towel  from the  rack and
pressed it against  his eyes. For a long time  he stood like that, the soft  terrycloth blotting out
his perceived sins. His penance fulfilled, he turned  his attention back to his job. Before marching
out the door, he poked his wide head back into the room and said, “Sound, you think of silk sheets
and clean pajamas while I’m gone, got that?”

“I will, Cap’n. Don’t worry, I will.”

Striding confidently down the hall to the elevator, briefcase in hand, Cap’n descended to the main
level bar and took a  seat at a table–one over from where the preachers  sat. A waitress came over
and asked what she could get him. “Coffee,” was his curt reply.

Meanwhile, Bino’s cloudy  mind fought to stay  focused. Skittish–and on the verge  of a nicotine
fit–he stared  down at his watch.  A second waitress  bustled over to  the table and asked  if she
could refill his coffee. He nodded and budged the cup a few inches her way.

Just then Reverend  Keller spied three men entering  the bar. He tapped Bino’s foot  with his shoe
and gestured towards the door. “That him?”

Bino straightened up in his chair and casually looked around. Then he turned his poker-faced gaze on
the trio. He reached up with his hand and  wiped his mouth. “The one in the middle,” he replied.
Two goons,  who looked more like  musclebound apes, scanned the  bar and branched off.  One wandered
over to the  bar and took a  seat where he could survey  the entire room. The  other’s fixed stare
fell on  Cap’n. Making  his way  over to  the table,  he settled  into a  vacant seat,  facing the
mahogany-skinned giant.  Cap’n smiled. The man  rested both elbows  on the wood-grain top  and got
down to business.

Stationed in the kitchen, Horne sent out a distress signal. “Something doesn’t look right!” he
called into his radio. “Three wise guys just walked in.”

Barnes’s worried voice blasted through his earpiece. “Who are they?”

“I’d say they’re Vinnie’s friends.”

“What do they look like?”

“The  boss  has a  high,  flat  forehead,  gray hair,  combed  back,  slicked  down. His  skin  is
pock-marked–like he had a case of real bad acne as a 434 KEN MERRELL

kid. He’s going over to Keller and Bino’s table.”

“What color are his eyes?”

“Can’t tell. It’s too dark.”

Out in the  bar, both preachers stood to  greet the main man. “Reverend Keller,”  he nodded, the
trace of a native Italian accent intermingling with an acquired Jersey dialect.

Keller extended his hand.  “Mr. Domenico.” The man looked down. It was  a breach of etiquette to
extend a hand to a crime boss. Shunning the gesture,  he slid out a chair and sat down. The reverend
swung his hand sideways in Bino’s direction. “This is my associate, Brother Bernalillo.”

Domenico, barely acknowledging  Bino’s nod, waved at Keller  to take his seat. “You  can call me
Antonio,” he began. “I’m  a great respecter of men of the cloth,  but with what you’re about
to do, I figure you’ll want to put your collars on the table and walk away. You catch my drift?”

Horne anxiously tapped the waitress who’d just entered the kitchen.

“See that man sitting next to the two preachers? Go offer him some coffee.

. . . And make sure you get a good look at his eyes.”

The tired  young woman,  not taking kindly  to the stranger’s  brusque orders,  replied, “Sorry,
mister, it’s not my table.”

Horne drew his  badge and flashed it  in front of her eyes.  “Listen. I don’t care.  I need your
help.” The woman nodded, turned on her heels, and returned  to the bar to pick up a pot of coffee.
At that very moment, Keller was at his persuasive best.  “I think what I have to say will save you
a lot of trouble. . . .”

When the waitress  approached the table, the conversation  ground to a halt. “Can I  pour you some
coffee?” she asked.

“Cappuccino,” Antonio replied. The tete-a-tete remained on  hold until after she’d moved on to
pour the black vagrant masquerading as a hotshot gambler  a hot cup of java. Turning back to Keller,
Domenico parroted  the reverend’s words. “So  you think you  have information that will  save me
lots a’ trouble, huh?”

“Have you heard the latest on the  stolen identity story? Several of our distinguished politicians
have been making the headlines.”

“Yeah, the senate called a hearing. So?”

Reverend Keller paused. “Seems your nephew is the one responsible for that little headache.”

“What Vinnie does with his free time is no concern of mine.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

435

Out in the kitchen, Horne’s reluctant waitress reported in. “All he wants is a cappuccino.”

“What color are his eyes?”

“Blue.”

Horne shooed her away. “Get him his cappuccino.” Then he lifted his radio. “It’s him.”

Barnes pulled  the agents in from  the exits to  form a tighter ring  around the bar. Then  from the
other radio  he listened in on  the agents posted  at Three Queens.  “They’re coming out. .  . .
It’s just Vinnie and Ritter.”

“Keep your distance. We don’t want to spook them.”

Vinnie was driving a new sports car, a sleek, navy blue Jaguar XKR

with beige  interior and  trim. “Nice  wheels,” Ritter said,  ogling the  ride. “You  and your
lawyer have the same, fine taste.”

“Yeah, I talked with him  a minute ago,” said Vinnie, a burr under  his saddle. “He thought it
was strange that it took so long to get you released this time.”

Little beads of sweat  had formed on Ritter’s upper lip. He blurted  out his canned excuse. “You
know how it is,  mate. They was tryin’ t’ get  me back on their team. Didn’t  want t’ let me
out.”

Vinnie eyed  the Brit suspiciously and  fired a second salvo.  “An hour before you  came back, the
agents up and pulled away from the casino. It looked like they knew you was comin’. You tight with
them or somethin’?”

“It’s nothin’, mate.  I didn’t budge.” Ritter rubbed  his damp palms on the  thighs of his
pants.

Vinnie reached across the console and grabbed Ritter by the pinkie.

“You’re lyin’ to me . . .”

The Jaguar’s airtight interior  muffled the screams. “Okay, okay, I was goin’  . . . t’ tell
ya’. . . .”  he howled in anguish. “They put  . . . this little thing in  me belt, so’s they
could follow us.”

Vinnie raised Ritter’s hand  and slammed the damaged pinky down onto  the shifter. When Ritter’s
shrieks finally died to a sniveling whine, the mafioso directed him to take off his belt. “We’ll
see if you’re tellin’

the truth,”  he sneered. Racing  under the freeway  overpass, he tossed  the belt out  the window.
Then, punching the  gas pedal to the  floor, he cut the  wheel and squealed off  down Stewart toward
Eastern Avenue. In three  minutes flat he’d pulled onto the Eastern on-ramp  and sped back 436 KEN
MERRELL

up the freeway. Two hundred yards from the overpass he pulled over onto the shoulder and watched.

Sure enough, on the road below an unmarked van was inching its way toward the bugged belt, which lay
at the foot of a chain link fence running along the base of the freeway’s concrete skirt. “Which
way are they headed?” Barnes called into his radio.

“Nowhere, sir. They’re not moving.”

“You have a visual?”

“No, sir. You said to stay back.”

“Give them a minute or two, then move in and take a look.”

“Yes, sir.”

Barnes drew the other radio up to his lips. “Everyone in position?”

“Yes, sir,” Horne replied.

“What are they doing?”

“Still talking.”

Antonio’s face  registered little  concern. “Credit  card fraud,  you say?  And you  have enough
evidence to put  him away for a few  years? Big deal. Be  good for him to do  some time–might wipe
that pompous grin off his mouth. The boy’s never been arrested. Too smart for his own good.”

Bino finally gathered the courage to ask a question  of his own. His meek, hang-dog manner and soft,
breathy utterances made him appear truly ministerial. “Did you  know . . . Three Queens has been .
. . shut down?”

“What do you mean shut down?” At last Keller could detect a little emotion in the crime boss’s
voice.

“Out of commission . . .” clarified Bino, “empty . . . no guests.”

“So Vinnie finally got the permits. I been askin’ what was takin’

him so long.”

Reverend Keller shook his head. “He could have  had the permits months ago,” he said. Removing a
folded document from  his pocket, he slid  it across the table. “The  application deadline expired
only a few weeks ago. He could’ve pulled the permit anytime up to a year before that.”

Antonio skimmed the document–which  a day earlier Keller had sifted  from Nurse’s filing system.
His visage hardened. “Maybe I put a little too much trust in the boy.”

“It’s worse,” Keller continued. “He’s been skimming off the top.”

He pushed several more documents in front of his attentive table-mate.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

437

“This the kind of money you pay him?”

The scars that ran  along the crime boss’s right jaw and disappeared  below the ear, deepened. His
steely gaze met Keller’s. “I take care of my own family problems. You stay out of this.”

Unnoticed by Domenico, under the table Bino  was giving Keller the shinbang treatment, clear signals
to back off. Reverend Keller ignored the advice. “I can’t stay out of it. He’s hurt some of my
friends. Any of your boys leave town the last few days?”

“How should I know? I got a big family.”

“A little girl’s been kidnapped. Another of Vinnie’s stunts.”

Antonio gestured to the man  at the bar. The gorilla slid off his barstool  and strode over to where
the boss sat. After engaging in a brief  and heated exchange–all in Italian–the goon returned to
his stool and  Domenico, as was his custom,  recapped to that point their  conversation. “Okay, so
two of Vinnie’s old pals came to town and . . .”

At the next table  over, Cap’n sipped his last thimbleful of coffee,  picked up the briefcase, and
exited the bar.  Finding a phone, he called up  to the room on the 7th  floor. “It’s time,” is
all he said.  Then, wandering the casino, he began  counting the agents trying to blend  in with the
guests–a little game to take  his mind off the stress he was under.  The G-men weren’t that hard
to pick out. They didn’t pay much attention to his movements, rather, remained focused on what was
transpiring out in the bar. By this time, Domenico had heard about all he needed to hear. But Keller
stayed on  the offensive. “It’s  never been  your family’s MO  to steal children,”  he said.
“In fact, it’s a bit cowardly, isn’t it?” The  toe of Bino’s shoe was going nuts under the
table,  emphatically kicking  the reverend’s  heel. In  the kitchen,  Horne called  on the  radio.
“They’re still talking, sir.”

“About what?”Barnes asked.

“I don’t  know. We’re almost  ready to send  in Sutton.” Agent  Sutton, dressed in  a skimpy
waitress outfit, nervously balanced  the cappuccino in her hand. A small  listening device was taped
to the bottom  of the plate. “Go get  ‘em,” Horne said with the enthusiasm  of a little-league
coach.

“Shut up, Horne.”  Sutton waltzed from the kitchen  and sidled up to the table.  “Here you go,
sir.” Chomping on  her gum for all it  was worth, she set  the cup down in front  of Mr. Domenico.
“What else can I get you gentlemen?”

Antonio shot a glance around the room. All the other waitresses had 438 KEN MERRELL

mysteriously disappeared. Sutton breezed  over to a nearby table and began wiping  it down. The wise
guy made another subtle hand  signal to his bodyguards, both of which were  now situated at the bar.
One got up and walked  the perimeter of the room. Then he moseyed into  the casino. When he returned
to his barstool, he sat back down and nodded over at the boss.

“Miss,” Antonio said, calling over to Sutton.

“Yes, sir.”

“This cappuccino’s  cold. Take  it back; I  changed my  mind.” He pointed  to the  two coffees
sitting in front  of the preachers. “And take  these away too. We don’t need  anything else. Get
lost.”

Sutton grappled with the plates and cups, gathered them in a pile and returned to the kitchen. “He
made us,” she reported. “I couldn’t hear a thing out there over the noise.”

Antonio’s right hand  rested in his lap. He  wiped his flattened nose conspicuously  with his left
thumb–then came the unmistakable sound of the hammer  of a pistol being pulled back from under the
table. “You bring the cops?” he growled.

Bino almost wet  his pants right then and there.  Reverend Keller spoke softly but in  a firm voice.
“If I  wanted to take  this to the  cops they wouldn’t  be spying on  us right now,  would they?
They’d have you in jail. . . . I want to cut a deal.”

“I haven’t seen  anything worth my time.  I’m washing my hands  of the whole .  . .” Antonio
started to swear and then stopped. “sorry, Father–the whole fiasco. Vinnie gets the heat on this
one. If the  cops can pin the  kidnapping on him, he’ll serve  hard time. He’s tough;  he can do
it.”

Keller nodded  faintly. “The next  thing I have  to tell  you is the  most important of  all. See,
I’ve been in contact with  a few of your employees here in the hotel. I  know for a fact they’re
employed by you.”

Antonio laughed out loud. “The only men I’ve got are those two over there. They’ve proven they
can be trusted.”

Suddenly, out in the kitchen,  one of Horne’s men began to scream over  the radio. “I’ve got a
visual on the old woman!”

“Where is she?”

“Headed your way.”

Horne clicked over to Barnes’s frequency. “What do you want me to do?”

“Play it out.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

439

Nurse cleared  the entrance  to the  bar and  took a seat  at a  table near  the door.  Cap’n also
sauntered back into the room and parked himself at a lone table on the other side of the room.

“See that old woman?” Keller said, gesturing towards Nurse.

“What about her?”

“Whether you  know it or not,  she’s been working  for you. She  has the phone records  to prove
it.”

Antonio scoffed, then swore under his breath. “I’ve never seen her before in my life.”

“That’s not how she’ll  testify. Matter of fact, she’s the one  that orchestrated the entire
scam with  the politicians.  She’s a homeless  friend of  mine. The FBI’s  here in  the building
looking for her. My guess is the only reason she hasn’t been arrested is because they can’t link
you and her together yet.”

Shakily, Bino  unfolded the afternoon  headlines and slid the  newspaper across the  table. Mitchell
Wilson,  Son-in-law to  CongressmanMacArthur, Arrested  for Murder.  As Antonio  scanned the  print,
Keller rested his finger on Mitch’s front-page, black-and-white photo. “He’s another friend of
mine–the one who shut  down Three Queens. He witnessed Vinnie kill a  Federal agent in cold blood.
Now Vinnie’s  blackmailing him, using  the gun as leverage.  He’s also blackmailing  a different
friend of mine on another murder he committed.”

Antonio eased his  gun back in his jacket  pocket and lurched to his feet.“And  now I’m finished
with your feeble attempt at blackmail.”

“We’re not  blackmailing you, Mr. Domenico.  We’re just the messengers–and  sometimes it’s
the messengers  that end  up getting  hurt. See  that big  black man  over there?”  Antonio turned
his  head,  peering  across  the  room.  “He’s  the  man,”  Keller  continued.  “He’s  got
twohundred-fifty-thousand in his briefcase that he’s just been dying to give you. It’s your take
on the credit card scam,  money swiped from half the hotels in the city.  That’s what the Feds are
here for.  You watch, though. The  second he opens  the case and  points to you, you’ll  be busted
right along  with Vinnie. He’ll testify  against you, just like  the old woman will.  The clincher
will be  the careful records  he’s kept and  the photo records on  every security camera  in every
hotel.  The mugs  of both  money  bags and  the  old lady  have been  in  most of  them. You’d  be
hard-pressed to  find a  more open-and-shut  case. You’ll have  every politician  in the  state of
Nevada trying to hang their problems on you. Not 440 KEN MERRELL

to mention half  the city council, guys  who own the hotels. Your  property will be so  tied up with
lawsuits, you’ll never get it developed.”

The blood drained noticeably from Mr. Domenico’s cheeks. He sat back down and looked Keller in the
eye. “You’re bluffing, preacher.”

“That’s one thing I’m not doing. You remember  Bino Daniels–ran the old Husky station out on
Rancho Drive?”

“I think I met him once. The guy smokes like a stack.”

“That’s  the one.  He’s on  oxygen now.”  Antonio eyed  Bino across  the table,  a tinge  of
recognition in his eyes, as Keller talked on. “No, he’s not a preacher. Just another one of your
once-faithful employees, ready to  go under oath. Bino’s been receiving  the hundreds of envelopes
your people have brought over the months. He’s got nothing to lose. He’ll squeal without batting
an eye. If  you’re willing to find  out if they’re bluffing, let  me ask the man  with the money
over to our table.”

“What do you want?”

“It’s simple, really. We want Vinnie, the one responsible for the murders and missing girl. Like
you said, it might be good for him to do some time.”

“You’d think me a fool if I took your word on all this supposed evidence.”

“You’ll just have to trust us, just like we have to trust you. I’ve done some homework on you,
talked with a  couple of priests in  your old neighborhood. They say  your word is good,  even for a
wise guy.”

Antonio laughed. “They still use that term–wise guy?”

The reverend laughed too. “If it fits.”

Domenico pursed his lips, thinking. Then he gave a  nod. “If what you tell me is true, I’ll give
you Vinnie. You  have my word.” That said, Antonio  Domenico stuck his hand out and  rose from the
chair. “I like you, Reverend. I think we’ll get along just fine.”

Keller took hold of the brawny hand in a firm grip. “That depends, Mr. Domenico, on whether or not
you break the law.”

The big boss gave a jerk of his head and  his two hired goons climbed down from their bar stools and
took their places at his side. Down the highway  a couple of miles, Barnes had just finished talking
with the  agents who’d found Ritter’s  belt. He was not  happy when he learned  Mr. Domenico had
simply gotten up and walked out of the hotel. “Can’t we bust him on something?” pleaded Horne.

“What for? For sending cold cappuccino back to the kitchen?” Barnes

THE IDENTITY CHECK

441

was furious. His  snitch was missing and now all  he had left was an indignant  old woman sitting in
New York, New York’s bar room. And she’d be as tight-lipped as the tooth fairy about her day’s
activities. The promises  she’d received from the Federal government  for special consideration if
she’d cooperate  with the  investigation didn’t  mean a thing  to her.  For that  matter, Barnes
mused, the angry old lady probably would withhold information just to spite the FBI.

The hour-and-a-half conversation had been guarded at  first. Mother and daughter, guests of the FBI,
were each finishing a hundred-dollar plate atop  the lavish Sheraton. Their chat had revolved mainly
around safe  subjects: the  MacArthurs’ D.C.  apartment, its  interior decor,  the congressman’s
reelection bid,  what Stephanie’s  older brother  was up to,  and when  the babies  were due–not
necessarily in that order. When the small-talk  had been exhausted and the inevitable, uncomfortable
silence set  in, both women at  once opened their  mouths to speak. “How’s  daddy?” “How’s
Mitch?”

Each smiled and fidgeted with her dessert. “I’m leaving him,” Levina finally blurted out. “I
know I’ve needed  to do it for  years, I’ve just never  had the courage. You’re  the first one
I’ve told.”

“But, Mom, you do love him, right? Why? . . .”

“For three years  I’ve pled for him to phone  you and tell you we wanted  you back–Mitch, too.
But he’s just too proud. He wouldn’t hear of  it. His life, his image always takes priority. And
I end up  being the floor mat, a  place to wipe his feet  when he gets them dirty.  I’m always the
dutiful wife who puts on her ‘pretty face’ in public. I can’t do it anymore. . . .”

“But, mother . . .”

“Shh. It’s okay. I’ve made up my mind. Actually,  in a way you helped me decide. I’ve always
secretly admired your  courage. You never needed him like  I did. You could tell him  no; ever since
you were a baby you could  tell him no. I used to wish I could. . . .  But I’ve never been able to
tell him no–not from our first date.”

“I’m sorry, Mom. I had no idea.”

“Your father’s the kind of man who will take everything he can get. If he knows I’m not behind
him, he’ll try to ruin me. I need your help.”

“Mother I . . .”

“No, I’m sorry. This isn’t the time to talk about it.” Mrs. MacArthur 442 KEN MERRELL

blotted her crimson lips with a napkin. “I need to know more about Mitch and your in-laws.”

After hearing  her mother’s confessions, Stephanie’s  head was spinning. Where  could she begin?
How could  she recap  all that had  happened over  the past week  and a half?  “He didn’t  do it
mother,” she  said, coming  straight to  the point.  “He’s a good  man. I  love him  more than
anything.”

“I can see it in your eyes, dear. They sparkle when you mention his name.”

“He grew up in kind of a rough environment, though. He lived with his grandpa.” Stephanie smiled
as she  pictured the  old codger, his  wrinkled, beet-red  face, his eyes  squinched in  a perpetual
scowl. “He’s such a neat old guy. Full of love and compassion, despite his gruff exterior.”

“Your father’s grandpa was a pig farmer in Iowa.”

“So why is Dad so pumped to succeed, so concerned about his image?”

Levina took a  sip of her wine. “Perhaps he  doesn’t want to remember where he  came from. Maybe
he’s  so busy  trying  to forget  his family’s  past  that he  can’t  see the  forest for  the
trees–if that makes sense.”

Stephanie  nodded. “He’d  like Mitch,  if he’d  just  give him  a chance.  He’s a  fantastic
student; he wants to be a great father–I’ve never seen anyone more anxious to have children. And
he treats me so wonderfully. He listens when I talk,  he’s got a great sense of humor, he loves me
for who I am.”

“He sounds a little like your father, thirty years ago.”

“Yeah, maybe  he is  a little like  Dad, except Mitch  is always  the first to  apologize, Dad’s
always  the last.  You’ll like  him; his  grandfather, too.”  Stephanie gave  a start.  “Oh, I
didn’t tell you. Grandpa had a heart attack a few days ago; I need to go see him again.”

Levina plucked the napkin from  her lap and set it on the table. “What  are we waiting for?” she
said, suddenly energized. “I’m dying to meet him.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

443

FORTY-EIGHT

TWENTY-TWO MILES NORTH of Las Vegas the Jaguar exited I-15 and headed north on Highway 93. The glare
of the western sun  burned hot through the driver’s window. Vinnie was  confident he hadn’t been
followed. Aside from Ritter’s bugged belt, the Feds had no other means of tracking him. Ritter was
still proclaiming his innocence– loudly–but all that  would shortly change. Up to this point the
scheme had seemed to  unravel at every turn, and the mobster’s mind  reeled in ragged desperation.
Outright  elimination of  the adversary–or  at  least taking  out as  many  of the  foe along  the
way–seemed a most appropriate and diabolical remedy.

“Look, mate,” groveled the Englishman, “they can’t  tail us without the belt. I don’t have
no reason to lie to ya’. The government ain’t  no gravytrain, and I didn’t much care for their
terms  anyways. But  I could  make  a future  joinin’ up  wit’ a  smart  man like  you. You  got
connections.”

Vinnie hadn’t uttered a word since the belt episode. Tight-lipped, he stared out onto the highway,
where ripples  of hotfooted  air scuttled up  from the insufferably  blistering asphalt  and distant
fronds of sagebrush tossed their heads in the feeble breeze. Ritter’s voice took on a more fervent
tone.

“I could even  go back out t’ the  streets. Be your informant. Thirty bucks  a day–that’d be
peanuts for a guy like you. . . .”

Vinnie’s mood instantly mutated  from sullen to seething. Fishing in the  pocket of his silk-lined
jacket, he withdrew a small revolver, wrapped in  a plastic bag. Hot rubber tires chafed against the
jagged, volcanic-pebble blacktop as  the Jag swerved to the shoulder and skidded  to a stop. “Shut
up!” he  howled. Then  the trash-talking began  in earnest.  Ritter was the  most sorry  person on
earth–no, he didn’t deserve the high honor of even  being called a person. He was the stool, the
scat, the dung squeezed from the lowest organism. And now the sewage had run its suicidal course. By
siding with the Feds, Ritter had committed the  most fatal of mistakes. The gangster’s cold barrel
pressed against the side of Ritter’s head.

“I’ve heard enough a’ your miserable whinin’,” ranted the tough guy. 444 KEN MERRELL

“You made your bed–now you’re gonna sleep in it.  . . . Haven’t you figured it out yet?” A
dull whimper surfaced from Ritter’s closed, quivering lips. But when the trigger didn’t squeeze,
apparently eclipsed  by his opponent’s better  judgement, Ritter took confidence–and  launched a
different, more  bold tack . “Whatcha  mean ‘haven’t I  figured it out yet?’”  Turning his
head,  he stared  down the  gun’s barrel,  a straight-line  smile spreading  over his  thick lips.
“Just did, chump. Just did.”

Vinnie cocked his head. “Did what?”

“Figured it out. I figured out that you’re about the dumbest bloke I ever met.”

Vinnie immediately drew back the gun barrel and slashed his passenger up-side the head. Blood gushed
from  Ritter’s temple,  smearing onto  the  leather upholstery  and  soaking into  the dark  beige
flooring.

“You’re a dead man,” Vinnie hissed.

Ritter’s head sagged onto the headrest. “And you’re  going t’ have t’ do a lot better than
that if  ya’ want t’  scare me,  you bloody-stupid bully,”  he sputtered. “I  been playin’
ya’ like a violin, just like Mitch and the mute  that stole your car; just like the old woman that
set ya’ up, the  one that lives in your alley. You’re a  bloomin’ coward, hidin’ behind your
guns and your uncle’s apron.  You wouldn’t know a good fight if it stepped  up an bit ya’, and
if ya’ did, you’d throw a low blow–just like you’ve always done.”

The hothead’s volatile nature bumped up yet another notch. The venom flowed freely from his mouth.
He heaved  himself from  the car and  circled it like  a tiger,  demanding Ritter climb  out. Ritter
refused to budge–just kept flinging muddy, sharp-tongued insults. “You already spilt me blood in
your car,” he goaded. “Gonna  have t’ burn it like I did your  garage. Shame you’ll lose two
expensive rides in the same  day. All your silk suits and fancy gold  jewelry, and you still ain’t
as smart as the bloody homeless bums that beg at your kitchen.”

Reckless gunfire split the desert air, squelching  Ritter’s tirade. He clenched his teeth and bent
over in  pain, his kneecap shattered  by the searing  bullet. A burst  of screams was followed  by a
breathless groan, whereupon  he lashed out again.  “Been waitin’ for a mistake  like that, ya’
stupid bloke,” Ritter raved on through gritted teeth.  “Now ya’ got a bigger problem. Me guess
is, ya’ got two shots  left.” His voice broke. Vinnie again brought the  gun up to the patsy’s
head, his hand trembling with anger. Then Ritter resumed his goading. “See, if that’s th’

gun that killed Mike, you can’t use it t’ frame Mitch no more. He’s in lock-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

445

up, an’ the cops know I was in one piece when I climbed in your car. If you ain’t got your piece
t’ hide  behind no more,  you got to kill  me wit’ one  bullet so you  can keep the other  to be
brave. Without your gun you’re nothin’, you . . .”

Another shot rang out and Ritter slumped over. His body twitched, then lay still. Vinnie reached out
and grabbed him by the  shirt collar, hauling him from the car. Dragging the  body behind a clump of
sagebrush at the side of the road, he smoothed  the marks in the sand made by Ritter’s shoes. Then
he scrambled  back in the Jaguar  and fish-tailed it in  the direction he’d come.  The car cruised
along in silence, his  ears still chiming from the gunshots. Suddenly another  ring came from within
Vinnie’s jacket. Bringing the phone up to his ear,  a deafening voice on the other line cried out,
“Vincento, my boy! I thought  I’d surprise you by coming to town. Wanted  to see how my favorite
nephew is doing.”

Bumbling for words, Vinnie croaked a simple, “Uncle Antonio . . .”

“That’s right. Just came from the airport. Why don’t  you come pick me and the boys up in your
new car.  Frankie told  me you  were havin’  trouble with  the old  one.” Antonio’s  voice was
drum-like; the Jersey side  of his accent beat a cadence alongside  the rhythmic Sicilian sing-song.
Vinnie stammered. “The new one . . . it’s givin’ me, uh, some trouble, Antonio. I was about to
call a wrecker and . . .”

“No problemo, Vincento. The boys and me will rent a car and come pick you up. Where are you?”

“I’m almost to the off-ramp at Craig,” he lied.

“Great. We’ll  meet you there.” Vinnie  ended the call and  jammed the pedal to  the floor. In
truth, he was at least 15 minutes away from the off-ramp.

Antonio  shut off  his  phone. “You  know  how  to get  to  Craig?” he  asked  Frankie, who  sat
contentedly at his side.

“Sure, dad. I been learnin’ the streets real good.” Frankie steered the rented limo from under
the Three Queens canopy and out onto the street.

Before dropping by to see  Three Queens, the boss and his boys had parked in  front of New York, New
York. There they watched as Nurse was arrested–shoved  into a car and swept away. It hadn’t been
mere fanfare to impress the boys from Jersey; it  was a real bust with managers being questioned and
guests standing around gawking. Antonio  had then made a pass around his own  block to check out the
incinerated body 446 KEN MERRELL

shop  and the  casino’s empty  parking  lot. Frankie  had given  him  the rundown:  all about  the
elevators breaking down, the power being shut off, and the pack of lawyers lining up for the kill.

Acknowledging it  or not, Antonio was  shaken by Vinnie’s  indiscretions. The family honor  was at
stake–and the sacrificial goat already on the skewer.  Frankie was the only one who wasn’t quite
sure what was coming down.

“Frankie,” Antonio  said with  a touch of  pathos, “you  are my only  son. This  business will
belong to you one day. I hope you can be  trusted to take it over.” Frankie smiled and leaned back
in his seat, his father at his side, the two gorillas up front.

“You can trust me, Pops. I been learnin’ lots from Vinnie, just like you said.”

“Good boy. I need to know I can count on you, no matter what.”

“Sure, Pops, whatever you say.”

“Good, Frankie, good. This is a family problem. We’ll deal with it as a family.”

The hospital reported that he’d been discharged just  before noon, along with a male nurse to help
him settle  in. The  nurse answered the  phone when  they’d called. He’d  said that  grandpa was
resting, but that he  hadn’t stopped talking about his grandson and his  young wife all afternoon.
Sure, the old man would be happy to see them–so long as they didn’t ask him to dance.

Levina MacArthur  pulled off  the freeway  near Logandale and  drove her  Lexus under  the makeshift
overpass.  She  and  Stephanie  had  spent  the hour-long  drive  reminiscing  and  catching  up  on
news–everything from  Maggie-the-good-and-noble and  tarantula-eyes to  Al-the-pervertKostecki and
his  no-good son  Andy. Other  lively  topics ranged  from  Mitch’s mechanic  abilities to  savory
junkyard dog stew and  the real, teeth-bearing junkyard dogs, gave rise to  a blend of amusement and
distress.

Stephanie  fretted, “I’ve  never  had to  get  out of  the car  without  Mitch being  around,”
referring to the tire-biting dogs.

“Don’t look  at me,” her  mother cringed, panic  written all over  her face. “I’m  just as
scared of dogs as you.”

The two women made the  turn down the gravel road, their eyes scouring the  yard. When the fancy car
rolled  to a  stop, Stephanie  craned her  neck, scanning  the auto  cemetery. “They  usually come
sprinting out

THE IDENTITY CHECK

447

from everywhere.  As soon  as Mitch opens  the door and  calls their  names, they turn  from vicious
attack dogs into frisky pets.” The women cowered in their seats, but the dogs didn’t appear.

“Maybe we should honk or something.”

Stephanie gave  two short blasts on  the horn. After  ten or fifteen  seconds, a smiling man  in his
early 20s stepped from the trailer. “Are you Stephanie?”

he called out from the porch.

Stephanie nodded from the half-masted window.

“Your Grandpa says the dogs haven’t been around since noon.”

Stephanie was first  to climb from the  car; Levina followed, noticeably more  cautious. “Come on,
Mother. It doesn’t look like they’re here at  all.” Both women scrambled across the 20 feet of
gravel towards  the porch,  one in patent-leather  heels, the other  swaying side  to side due  to a
distended tummy. Safely  on the wooden steps, they  paused to catch their breath,  and again scanned
the driveway and out yard, laughing outloud at their unwarrantedfears.

Grandpa had climbed from his easy chair to greet  them. Dressed in a tattered robe, thin pajamas and
a pair of suede slippers, worn and shiny at the toes, he plainly beamed with joy. In the few minutes
it had taken for the women to get inside the trailer, he’d taken time to comb his straggly head of
snow-white hair. Weathered old arms, bruised from where dozens of needles had been inserted, reached
out to wrap Stephanie in a warm embrace.

The low sun cast columns of mellow rays  through the hand-stitched curtains, hung many years before.
The soft fabric seemed to  speak of the last woman who for so many years  had brought warmth both to
the house and to the old man’s heart–a heart fast on the mend. “My girl,”

he cackled. For a whole  minute they held each other. Then Grandpa looked her  in the eye and asked,
“How’re you doin’?”

“I’m fine, Grandpa. I spent a half-hour with Mitch this afternoon.”

The  old man  leaned into  his granddaughter-in-law,  using her  as a  sort of  fulcrum to  keep his
balance.  His gaze  flitted back  and  forth between  Stephanie  and the  attractive woman  standing
nervously at the door.  She, in turn, was curiously surveying the small  trailer. “How’s the boy
doin’?”

“We’re going to make it through this.”

“Don’t doubt that for a second . . . . Just wonderin’ if his spirits are good.”

448 KEN MERRELL

“I don’t think he’s ever felt better.”

Grandpa finally released his hold, leaving his hand on Stephanie’s shoulder, just in case. “Now,
this beautiful woman,” he cajoled, turning to Levina,

“must be your mother.”

Levina smiled. “Grandpa Wilson,” said Stephanie, “this is Levina MacArthur.”

Mrs. MacArthur came over in front of Grandpa and offered her hand.

“I can see the resemblance,” he said as  he sandwiched her manicured fingers between his gnarled
mitts. “No doubt where Stephanie got her beauty, Mrs. MacArthur.”

“Thank you, Mr. Wilson. You’re too kind. And please call me Levina.”

“Only if you call me Ray.”

The room suddenly went  quiet, like everyone was wondering where to go  from there. “Where are the
dogs, Grandpa?” Stephanie finally said, breaking the awkward silence.

“Strangest thing.  They was here  when we came  home today, but they  chased some fella  outta the
trailer and ain’t been back since. Skinny guy–looked  like he was havin’ the time of his life.
. . .”

Stephanie’s face registered alarm. “Oh, dear!” she said. “That was a friend of Mitch’s. He
dropped him off here when he stopped to pick up the car.”

Grandpa called  into the  tiny kitchen,  where the  young aid was  making a  pot of  coffee. “See?
Don’t pay to call the cops, ‘less you know all the facts.” Still, the old man seemed troubled.
He turned back  to the women. “Hope them dogs  didn’t hurt him. Only thing missin’  was half a
pot of junkyard  dog stew. Stuff was so  old I’m surprised it weren’t growin’.  The fella must
a’ been starvin’.”

Seeing his patient was preoccupied with his visitors,  the young man brought in the coffee and asked
if it  would be okay  for him to  go out for a  few hours. Grandpa  was more than  accommodating; of
course it was  okay. When the door  had closed and the car  had rattled off down  the drive, Grandpa
said, “Don’t  mean to  be coarse, but  that boy asks  more questions  than all them  doctors put
together. Been careful ‘bout  what I tell him, though. Wouldn’t surprise me  if he was a cop.”
The old man motioned over to the kitchen table. “Oh, please sit down. I’m not used to havin’

guests. Didn’t mean to be unsociable.”

It didn’t take long for all three to warm to the friendship and even better

THE IDENTITY CHECK

449

conversation. Levina  asked about the recipe  for the tasty  dish she’d heard so  much about–and
within minutes the two women were in the kitchen peeling potatoes, the old man grunting instructions
from the other room. Barnes had been receiving  plenty of instructions of his own. Field and Wilding
were less than pleased that two of their key players had disappeared: Ritter, their chief informant,
and Vinnie, their number  one tyrant, out driving a new Jaguar. The  old woman hadn’t provided any
help at all. In fact–and as  expected–she’d been downright belligerent. Reverend Keller, along
with  Bino and  his new  attorney friend,  Congressman  Dalton MacArthur  were back  in the  Federal
Building. Each remained tight-lipped concerning their  latest conversations, as they were waiting to
speak to ‘the man.’

When  Wilding entered  the  room, Keller  stood  up, arms  folded  across his  chest,  defiant as  a
rebellious teen. “You should have told me you were  making a deal with one of my flock.” He held
out Ritter’s papers and let them parachute down onto the table.

Wilding raised an eyebrow and took his seat. Having had little sleep, he was likewise a bit brusque.
“What? Now you’re his attorney, too?”

“No, but I’m sure  you know Congressman MacArthur; he’ll be representing my  flock. And as for
Mr.  Ritter–just so  you’re aware–he’s  suffering from  a brain  tumor, still  in its  early
stages. He didn’t  even tell his friends. With  the tumor putting pressure on the  brain, half the
time he can’t think straight, he’s short-tempered and  looking for a fight wherever he goes. His
life’s a  mess right  now. His  kid brother’s a  junky–something he  feels responsible  for. I
haven’t even seen  him in a week. He’s  out wanting to rob a  bank or who knows what,  so he can
send his brother home to Yorkshire to be with  his dying mother. Like I said, Ritter’s whacked out
most of the time, but the one thing he knows  is where your agent’s body used to be–in that meat
locker. My bet is whoever he gave that mis information to, killed him.”

The ex-plumber’s teeth were clenched and the veins  throbbed out on his forehead like little pipes
about to burst  from the pressure. The bombshell  had inflicted its damage. G-man  and citizen alike
were left speechless, giving the simmering preacher the chance to preach on.

“Your contract is so full of wiggle room it won’t hold daylight, let alone pay this man what you
promised. If you want my help, you’d better tool up or I’ll march out of here and tell the press
what  an ignorant,  bumbling bunch  of idiots  you are.”  Keller seized  the doorknob.  “Now, if
you’ll excuse me, I 450 KEN MERRELL

need to find a quiet place to ask God to forgive me for what I’m feeling right now.”

The slamming  door jarred the lights  in the room. Bino  shifted in his seat,  desperately needing a
smoke to calm his frayed nerves. A cough rose from his blackened lungs, then he softly rasped, “If
you do like he . . . tells you, my daughter .  . . will come out of this . . . alive. I’ll testify
. . . against Vinnie and his boys . . . and tell you whatever . . . you need to know.”

The turn  of events  had kindled  real hope  within Congressman  MacArthur. Bino’s  willingness to
testify would  greatly simplify the  case, not  to mention expedite  its march through  the judicial
jungle. If  the congressman sat in  on the trial,  for once the  tide of political press  would work
for–rather than  against–him, and  hopefully help  restore his good  name. More  importantly, it
would provide him an opportunity to see his daughter and make a fresh start with her.

Up until that time, the congressman had done  little–in fact, nothing, if you discount sitting and
listening.  Now he  was about  to begin  to throw  his weight  around. He  stood to  leave. “I’m
inclined to think these  street-rats have you by the short hairs, gentleman,”  he said, nodding at
Field in particular. “I think I need to meet with the reverend to discuss my fee. In the meantime,
I suggest you take a moment to talk about how far you’re willing to let this thing go.”

The tribe  of agents and  attorneys also left  the room, converging for  a pow wow  behind Field’s
office door.  Field spoke  first. “This  preacher knows everything  that’s going  on out  on the
street. How can we compete with that?”

“What’s the price for his help?” asked Wilding.

The prosecuting attorney spoke up. “We have a hundred or more charges against half-a-dozen people.
He wants everything dropped.”

“They’re mostly minor,” Barnes added.

The attorney’s head wagged violently. He wasn’t about to let it go.

“Murder’s not a minor  offense. Mr. Wilson can be charged for  his participation, whether it’s
committing the act or as an accessory.”

Wilding agreed. “We make the deal conditional. We drop everything except the murder charge.”

The attorney again shook  his head. “That’s a viable alternative for  all current charges,” he
said,  “but  what  about  possible  future  charges? There’s  missing  money  still  out  there,
restitution  needs to  be paid  to credit  card  companies, there  are past  criminal activities  to
consider. How’s all that go-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

451

ing to  trickle down?  Keller wants  immunity for  his people, but  . .  .” The  ensuing 20-minute
discussion became rather heated  at times, but at last the meeting adjourned  and the men scattered,
seeing to their  various duties. Up two levels,  sitting at a bench near  the elevators, Congressman
MacArthur and Reverend Keller had reunited. “You’re an incredible man, Reverend,” remarked the
politician. “You can love and rail in the same breath.”

Keller, his face planted in his hands, murmured, “I  lost my temper. It’s a weak man who can’t
control his temper. . . .”

Those few, short words pierced the congressman’s heart to the core.

“I’ll take the case,”  he said quietly. “We can keep it from  the press–it won’t even be
necessary to tell my daughter. I have some repenting of my own to do.”

The toxic heat radiated from the blue car, flames starting to lick up from its undercarriage. Dozens
of cars were backed up against the exit, and passing rubberneckers had slowed traffic to a snail’s
pace. The wailing, horn-honking  fire truck crossed against traffic under the  overpass at Craig and
jockeyed for  position near  the blaze.  Vinnie stood  with his  hands shoved  in his  pocket, still
clasping a warm cigarette  lighter in one hand, the other still clutching  an even hotter pistol, no
longer sheathed in plastic. The distant voice was all too familiar.

“Vincento . . .” it said. “Vincento, shame  on you.” Vinnie spun around. His uncle’s cold,
lifeless eyes met his  own, equally callous glare. “This ain’t the  old neighborhood no more,”
Antonio whispered with a trace of melancholy. “The automobiles–they ain’t so cheap these days.
Times are changin’, and so is the way we gotta do business.”

Frankie stood  next to his father,  beaming with confidence,  poised to begin his  reign. Vinnie’s
brain swirled  and swayed, scrolling  through a thousand lies,  seeking protection from  the pending
storm, grasping for  some faint hope his own  flesh and blood would understand. “Antonio  . . .”
Vinnie reached for his uncle’s hand. A pleading kiss  to the family ring might bring him back into
grace.

“Don’t say nothin’.”  The big boss pressed his  finger to his lips. “I trusted  you like a
son, Vincento. Come–we have business that must be settled.”

Frankie reached over  and seized Vinnie’s arm in a  crushing grip. He had the muscle,  and now his
father needed him for a  change. Instinctively, as if a fire had been  lit under him, Vinnie plucked
the pistol from his jacket and 452 KEN MERRELL

stabbed it up  against Frankie’s chest. The blast  was barely audible over the  traffic and sirens
and splashing  water. Frankie’s grip slackened.  Baffled by the  sudden turn of events,  he looked
longingly at his father, a dual plea for his  blessing and forgiveness. His knees began to buckle as
he watched Vinnie transfer the gun to Antonio’s ribs and quietly stripped him of his weapon.

“My  old man  was slow–just  like you,”  Vinnie chided.  “You’re right,  Uncle. Times  are
changin’, and old  men have no business bein’  in business when they can’t take  care of their
own business.”

By now a line of  police cars and highway patrol vehicles were making their  way up the shoulders of
the freeway, approaching the burning vehicle. Several times  they had to drive down onto the incline
to  pass vehicles  looking to  escape the  tie-up. Vinnie  ushered his  uncle over  to the  limo and
instructed  the two  burly  goons to  move to  the  curb. Antonio  gave  a slight  nod. The  curious
onlookers, their eyes pinned to the burning Jaguar,  didn’t notice the gangster at the side of the
road raise  the pistol and  bring it down,  nor did they see  the crime boss  wobble like a  top and
crumple into the limo’s front seat.

Commandeering the posh rental, Vinnie drove back up  the southbound ramp. Calls were already out via
radio about the big man lying on the freeway, blood pouring from his chest. Amid a whirlwind of cars
and confusion, Vinnie made his mad dash to  freedom. Oncoming highway patrolmen waved him out of the
way. He gladly  complied by pulling down onto  the grassy embankment and letting them  pass. Back at
the overpass, Domenico’s  two huge men wrenched open a  car door and jerked a woman  up out of her
seat in an attempt to  follow the black limousine. The dozens of police  cars arriving on the scene,
however, blocked their way.

Unleashed from the snarl of traffic, the limo chewed up the miles.

“Vincento, you will not live another day,” Antonio said sternly.

“And you,” spat Vinnie, his gun still trained on his hunched-over uncle,

“you’ll never have any respect again.”

“Where’d you get this false sense of honor, Vincento? Sometimes you must bend with the wind.”

“Is that what my old man did for you?”

“Your father chose his role in the family. Much like you have chosen yours.”

“No, you was always bad-mouthin’ him. He was nothin’ but your stooge,

THE IDENTITY CHECK

453

sent to clean up your garbage.”

Antonio grimaced in pain, a  goose egg forming on his skull. “No, Vincento.  He was my brother. He
chose to stand by my side.”

“You’re a  liar!” screamed Vinnie. “He  was your dog! You  sometimes tossed him a  bone, but
then you left him behind. You always treated him like dirt!”

“You’re wrong. . . . Vincento, he couldn’t read. That was a fact. He chose his role because he
couldn’t read. He couldn’t take  care of the business, so he took care  of business, if you know
what I mean.”

“And now  I’m gonna take  care of some  business of my own!”  Vinnie raged, his  voice turning
cruel and demanding. “Open your door!”

“Vincento, think about what you’re doing.”

Vinnie glanced in  his rearview mirror. Out  on the horizon, he  could still see the  thick cloud of
black smoke  rising in the  air. Further beyond,  a pale sun was  being swallowed by  the mountains,
radiant shafts of light  casting their brilliant-colored handiwork on the  low-slung banks of clouds
that hovered in the lazy western sky. Vinnie  squeezed the trigger and the passenger window exploded
and again he hissed, “Open your door!”

Antonio reached down and pulled  the handle. As soon as the door popped  open, Vinnie slammed on the
brakes with his left foot  and raised the other. With a mighty kick,  he catapulted Antonio from the
vehicle onto  the unforgiving pavement.  Once more gunning  the engine, he  fled on up  the roadway,
bearing down on Logandale.

Wilding,  having hurriedly  finished up  the paperwork,  slid a  single sheet  in front  of Reverend
Keller. “You sign right here.” He pointed to a blank line at the bottom of the document. “And,
Mr.  Daniels, you  sign here.”  His finger  swept over  to the  right-hand side  of the  page. The
attorney, Congressman MacArthur, a  man unaccustomed to flying by the seat of  his pants, took a few
seconds to peruse the  draft one last time. It was way too  simple–no fancy words, no double-talk,
right to the  point. A list of  eight names–most homeless eyewitnesses  to criminal activity–was
followed by the passage:  Except for the charge of murder,all charges will  be dropped and no future
charges will be pressed. This line was followed  by a list of dropped charges, including credit card
fraud,  kidnapping, falsifying  documents, improper  disposal of  a corpse,  and so  on. In  return,
evidence against Vincent Domenico, Clint Thurston and others would be submitted. 454 KEN MERRELL

The document further stated that money from at least 40 casinos would be returned, except the amount
spent  at  each  casino.  Totals  would  be  gathered when  the  last  witnesses  came  forward.  In
addition–and perhaps most importantly–a shoe box filled with computer disks would be turned over
to authorities, providing the hundreds of names of those who had been wrongly defrauded.

The reverend paused and asked  the congressman to step out in the hall with  him for a moment. “If
they find a gun and a body, will Ritter’s contract hold up?” he asked.

MacArthur smiled. “If I were them, I’d make sure it was honored. I’m not sure they’d want to
have to deal with your wrath again.”

The last of  the contracts signed, each defendant  met the Alley Team’s new attorney,  one by one,
with the reverend standing at his side. When it came Mitch’s turn to speak with his father-in-law,
Keller started for the door. “I’ll leave you two alone,” he said. “And Mitch, don’t forget
what we  talked about earlier. God  can look so  far forward and  backward that we can’t  begin to
comprehend it all.” The reverend glanced back as  the congressman turned to face Mitch. It was one
of the  rewards of  the ministry: seeing  families reunited.  Extending his hand  to Mitch,  the two
in-laws embarked on a conversation long overdue.

THE IDENTITY CHECK

455

FORTY-NINE

TWO HOURS HAD CREPT BY since Cap’n returned to the hotel room. Sound still refused to let him call
an ambulance. All  he asked is that his big,  faithful friend stay with him until  the end, when the
heavenly  door swung  open and  Sound walked  through. His  breathing had  become more  shallow, the
coughing spells  more frequent  though less  intense. As  his lung  capacity diminished,  the oxygen
supply to the brain grew less and less. Sound slipped in and out of consciousness. During one of his
more lucid moments,  he said his last  goodbyes. Then, amid tears  on both sides, he  tried one last
time to  lift his devoted friend’s  spirits. “I don’t  want you fretting over  it, Cap’n,”
Sound struggled to say.

“It had to happen sooner or later. Now I just need a friend to see me off.”

With that, he drifted off  and slept for almost an hour. Then came  another request that almost tore
Cap’n’s soul to shreds. “Sing to me–tell me how it used to be when you were a boy.”

Cap’n slumped  down next  to Sound’s  bony shoulders.  Then, gathering  him up  in his  arms and
stroking the colorless face and  limp arms, he started to sing. When every  tune and lullaby he knew
had been  sung and re-sung,  Cap’n began to  tell a  story, a favorite  of his, all  about another
street-savvy character–a kind of fictional, rural-dwelling Sound. “Once upon a time, deep in the
countryside, lived  a rabbit.  This was  no ordinary rabbit.  Br’er Rabbit  was his  name. Br’er
Rabbit was  a curious  sort of critter,  always gettin’  into things he  weren’t supposed  to be
in.” Cap’n hesitated, trying to remember the childhood tale. With a shrug, he set out on his own
version.

“This here  fox kept comin’  ‘round, thinkin’ he’d steal  Br’er Rabbit’s food.  So the
wily rabbit built him this here tar baby . . .”

Like the tar  baby that stuck to everything in  its path, there was only one  more matter that still
stuck in Vinnie’s craw, one name that burned  in his murky brain: Wilson’s Wrecking Yard, I-15 &
Logandale. The words–painted  on the sides of  the wrecker that had deposited  the crushed Ferrari
456 KEN MERRELL

at his  feet–were etched in  his memory. And  now, nearing Logandale, he  was about to  erase that
memory forever. A  sinister grin crept over his  face as he passed the five-mile  exit sign. Someone
would pay, and  it would be someone  that Mitch loved. He  would deliver a final  blow, reviving his
dignity and position of power. Just minutes after the final document was signed, a call came in from
Grandpa’s nurse. “Agent Barnes,” he said. “This is  Agent Gage. One of the men you’ve been
looking for is here in the junkyard.”

“Thanks, Gage,”  Barnes answered.  “But we’ve struck  a deal.  We can wrap  up the  case the
minute we  locate Vincent  Domenico. I’ll  send out  a regular replacement  for you  as soon  as I
can.”

His business with the Federal agents accomplished, Reverend Keller decided to take a spin out to the
junkyard and bring Smitty home. To pass the time,  he invited Bino along for the ride. After placing
his call,  Agent Gage returned to  the trailer and gathered  his things. When he  explained that the
night-shift nurse was on his way, Levina and Stephanie insisted he go ahead and take off. They could
take care of the crotchety old fellow until  the replacement arrived. The junkyard dog stew was just
starting to simmer, and by the time it reached its mouth-watering best, they’d be hungry.

Gage stowed his few belongings in the car, first  tucking his sidearm in the side of the trunk, then
patting the vest into place.  The crisp “FBI” label reminded him that he  was a new recruit. For
the next few years his lack of seniority and field experience would land him only the low-risk jobs.
Still,  he’d hoped  for a  little action  on this  assignment. Pulling  from the  gravel onto  the
frontage road,  he made his way  towards the freeway entrance.  Nearing the interchange, he  spied a
long, black limo pass beneath the freeway, having  just exited. Rather odd for the rural setting, he
thought, but no  big deal. Gage accelerated up  the on-ramp. Since the assignment there  had been no
radio contact–he’d stored his radio in the glove compartment for safe keeping. Taking it out, he
flipped it on.

In the meantime, Antonio  had been found sprawled on the interstate, stripped  of the larger portion
of his wardrobe, not to mention much of his  Italian hide. When he finally came to, he found himself
stripped of  all selfrespect  as well. For  a man  in his mid-fifties,  he’d survived  the asphalt
breakdance with only a scraped backside, a concussion, and a broken leg. The

THE IDENTITY CHECK

457

old man knew exactly how to take care of business, but it would have to wait.

By  the time  the information  trickled down  to the  FBI from  the three  law enforcement  agencies
responding to the calls, Gage had figured out  the black limousine was not in Logandale by accident.
Even as he fastened his vest in place and strapped  his Glock-23 to his side, his coded call was out
over the airways and he was on the fly back to the junkyard.

“You wait for back up, Gage, you hear?” Barnes called out to his rookie agent.

“Sir, Stephanie Wilson  and the congressman’s wife are  in the trailer. I might be  able to take
him out before he gets there.”

Barnes turned to Field,  who was sitting at his desk, his blood  pressure shooting through the roof.
Field nodded apprehensively.  The very thought of  losing another agent sent  shockwaves pounding at
his bowels.

“Vest up, Gage,” Barnes ordered.

“Done, sir.”

“By the book. Only by the book,” he cautioned.

“Yes, sir. I’ll do my best, sir.”

Before  reaching the  junkyard, Gage  flipped  off his  headlights  and cautiously  turned down  the
gravelly drive. Then his heart caught in his throat.  The limo was parked out near the frontage road
a block from  the wrecking yard, its  cab empty. He’d studied  the profile and knew  the drill. He
eased his vehicle to a stop some 50 feet away.  Wiping his sweating palms on the sides of his pants,
he climbed from his car  and made his way cautiously along the weedy edges of  the road. With nary a
bit of sunlight to  see by, he crept still closer.  It was then that he saw  movement near the front
gate.  Vinnie was  sneaking past  the yard’s  lone light,  headed for  the trailer.  Gage scurried
silently across  the dusty  yard, shadowing his  prey. Crouching next  to the  trailer’s skirting,
Vinnie eased his head up and peered through the blinds. There, sitting on the couch, laughing at the
old man’s stories, were Levina and Stephanie.

Suddenly Gage’s voice rang  out through the darkness. “Vincent Domenico, FBI!  Put your hands in
the air or I’ll be forced to shoot.”

Before the  word ‘shoot’  was even out,  Vinnie had  spun and emptied  three rounds  in Gage’s
direction. The agent  managed to get off a single  round before being struck in the  chest and upper
thigh by the flying slugs. 458 KEN MERRELL

On  the gravel  he lay,  dazed, gasping  for air  and bleeding  profusely. Inside  the trailer,  the
women’s screams sent  Grandpa on the alert. He  heaved himself up off his chair,  switched off the
nearby light, and whispered for Stephanie to crawl into the kitchen to do the same.

“Stef!” Grandpa whispered in the darkness. “Get a hold of yourselves. He’s a punk kid.”

“H-he’s going to kill us,” Levina whimpered.

“He’s not  gonna kill  us,” growled the  tough old  codger. Though out  of breath,  he crawled
across the new carpet. “Follow me and be quiet.”

On all fours, he began to make his way down the hall.

“I can’t see,” Stephanie whispered.

“Come all the  way down the hall.”  Past the bathroom he  went and through the  bedroom door. He
kept moving  at a steady pace,  dragging himself to  the opposite wall and  up the side of  the bed.
Sliding open his nightstand drawer, he retrieved  his vintage 9mm pistol. Then he reversed direction
and scuttled across  the hall to the  utility room closet. Sliding  the bifold door to  one side, he
rested his hand  on the dryer, pulled  himself up, and clicked  down on the power  breakers. All the
while, the women were clutching one another, chests heaving in fright.

“Follow me,” was all the  old man said as he led them back into  the bedroom. His damaged ticker
thudded inside his  chest. Part of him felt like  the ex-Navy Seal he once was,  the other part felt
like the disabled veteran he now was.

Just then the front  door exploded inward. Vinnie, dripping blood from  his wounded shoulder, called
out  into the  darkness  a line  used  by everyone  from  game-playing children  to  Jason of  chain
saw-massacre fame.  “Come out,  come out  wherever you  are,” he  chanted–only from  the tough
guy’s lips the words sounded at once more  child-like than children at play and more sinister than
a mass  murderer’s threat.  His words  sent a  chill down Stephanie’s  spine and  a lump  to her
throat. “I have a present to give Mitch, and you’re it.” He flicked the light switch. Nothing.
Dogs on  the howl  erupted in  the distant  darkness, drawing ever  closer. At  the opposite  end of
the  trailer, Grandpa  finished  delivering his  instructions.  “This’ll put  ya’  out in  the
junkyard,” he whispered,  tapping on the back door.  “In the northwest corner is an  old bus. He
won’t  find ya’  there. Now  hurry!” His  voice  was gruff  and pressing.  “I’ll slow  him
down.” The old man pulled open the door and shoved the women out.

“But Grandpa . . .” Stephanie started to say before the door creaked

THE IDENTITY CHECK

459

shut. Seeing there  was nothing else to  do, she and Levina  turned and fled. Vinnie  flicked on his
lighter and stared  through the shadows. Staggering  down the hallway, he peered  into the bathroom,
then reached for the bedroom door. Grandpa hunkered down next to the bed. Just then the bedroom door
burst open and the  cocksure gangster, his lighter leading the way, strutted  into the room. The old
man pitched and rolled  across the queensize bed like an iron tumbleweed,  causing Vinnie to squeeze
off three shots.  One more shot was  fired as Grandpa crumpled from  the bed and hit  the floor. The
barks off in  the distance, mingled with  approaching sirens through the partially  open door, where
the women had escaped only moments before. The old man lay sprawled on the floor, a fresh glimmer of
hope calming his wildly beating heart as he listened to the wonderful yelps of his dogs.

Down the  dark rows  of rusting cars,  Stephanie, hearing  the echoing pops,  gasped and  cried out,
“Grandpa!” Levina took her daughter by the arm and yanked her farther along.

The  van’s  door  said “Keller’s  Kitchen,”  but  in  the  pitch blackness  the  words  were
indistinguishable. The  vehicle’s headlights lit  up the gravel  parking lot and  the grim-looking
trailer beyond. Thirty feet to  the north of the structure, an agent’s pale  face peered up from a
pool of blood, his  eyes blinking against the pair of bright lights.  Reverend Keller leapt from the
van, simultaneously stripping the white shirt from his back. Wadding it up, he pressed it up against
Gage’s thigh wound to staunch the bleeding.

“Vinnie’s here,” Gage whispered, his breathing labored from the pain and bruises to his chest.
“Stephanie  .  . .  and  her  mother  too.  . .  .”  he  managed  to  say before  slipping  into
unconsiousness Bino had remained glued to his seat, sucking deep breaths of oxygen through the tubes
he held to his nose. “I need your help!” Keller yelled.

“Get his radio and  call it in.” But the man  was unable to move, paralyzed by  the sight of the
downed officer. Deep-rooted memories flashed through  his mind, replaying a night he’d desperately
tried to forget for 22 years. The clatter of  gunfire resounded in his brain; once more he could see
and smell and feel the gray matter spraying across his face. He was lying on the mean streets of LA,
his partner’s body slumped in the gutter, motionless.

“Bino!” Keller yelled again. “Get down here and help me!” Already pushed beyond the brink of
disaster, Reverend Keller bowed his head and mumbled 460 KEN MERRELL

a five-second prayer: “Father, forgive me for what I’m  about to do. This once, I need to tell a
lie.” He loosened Gage’s gun-belt, tugged it down his leg, and cinched it tight. Then he wrested
the  pistol from  the man’s  almost lifeless  fingers and  strode over  to the  van. “Bernalillo
Dalton, God needs you! Your sins are forgiven.”

The frail man  blinked and stared into the  preacher’s eyes. Keller slapped the handle  of the gun
into his  hand and, seizing him  by the shirt,  lifted him from the  van. “You get off  your sorry
horse and go help those women, or so help me,  He’ll strike you dead right here and now, and every
one of those sins will be back on your skinny shoulders!”

Bino blinked again, then squinted down at the government-issue weapon in his hand, muttering, “I .
. . can’t. . . .”

“Don’t tell me you can’t!” Keller fumed as he shook him by the collar. “I say you can. God
says you  can. And  if you  don’t, the blood  of two  women will be  on your  hands. You  have the
training,  I don’t,  and if  I don’t  help this  officer right  now, you’ll  have yet  another
person’s blood on your hands.”

Bino stared  into Keller’s  eyes, which  burned like  fire from  the reflected  headlights. Keller
turned back to Gage and stripped the bullet-proof  vest from his torso. “Put this on,” he called
out, tossing it toward Bino. “Pull your suit  jacket back over the top, button the preacher collar
at your neck, and  he won’t be able hurt you.  I promise.” Bino peered down at  the gun one more
time. Then, at the reverend’s final command of “Go!” he slid the handle into his palm and gave
it a squeeze. At first his gait was slow and  cautious. Then he flung the small oxygen tank over his
back, strapped it around his  chest so it rode high under his chin, and lit  out in the direction of
the angry barks.

Reverend Keller  scooped up Gage’s  radio and made  an emergency call. As  he knelt back  down and
applied additional  pressure to  the wound,  he whispered another  prayer: “I  will resign  in the
morning, dear Father. I pray that someday thou wilt forgive me. . . .”

A crescent moon nudged its silver smile above the eastern horizon as 30 FBI sedans screamed up I-15.
Vinnie’s left  arm hung limp at  the elbow. He staggered  like a scourged shadow  down the central
aisle of the metal boneyard, Gage’s slug having done  its share of damage. Somewhere up in the far
reaches of the yard’s  northwest corner, Stephanie and her mother had been  unable to find the bus
Grandpa

THE IDENTITY CHECK

461

had mentioned.  Now they huddled in  the cab of  an abandoned Chrysler, the  second up on a  pile of
four. Seven  skittish, barking dogs  bayed hysterically in  the darkness at  the base of  the stack,
eager to get at the passengers trapped inside.

“If  these dogs  don’t leave,”  sobbed Levina  in her  best attempt  at a  whisper, her  voice
trembling, “he’s going to find us.”

“Maybe we need to get  out . . .” Stephanie started to say, when  suddenly a broad, smiling face
popped up  at the broken  window, sending echoing  screams into the night.  Out in the  yard, Vinnie
instantly turned and  began to run towards the  screams; Bino did likewise. Strangely,  the dogs had
gone silent.  Back inside  the junked Chrysler,  the utter  sense of panic  had begun  to evaporate.
Smitty’s  frantic array  of hand  signals were  trying to  convince the  women to  climb from  the
vehicle. “Are you Smitty?”

Stephanie asked, her  eyes darting about. Smitty nodded enthusiastically.  “Mitch told me you’re
his friend.”  Smitty nodded again and  gave the startled young  woman a hug. From  all the stories
Mitch  had told  him,  he felt  as  if  he had  known  her forever.  Her  fears lessened,  Stephanie
reciprocated. Then she shivered  and whispered, “There’s a man after us,  Smitty. I think it’s
Vinnie.”

Smitty cocked his head to  the side, listening. In turn, the stifled dogs’  ears perked up as they
awaited a command from their new found friend.  Squatting down next to them, he began puffing little
wisps of air through his  teeth, producing a chain of soft trills. Seconds  later, he aimed his face
at the moon.  One by one the  dogs joined in, adding their  voices to his shrill  scream, hurling an
eerie wave of territorial howls through the warm night air.

The churning pandemonium made Vinnie stop in his tracks. Bino, however, pressed forward, his courage
fortified with every step. It pumped at his lungs, at his heart and mind; it pounded at his thoughts
as he groped his way among the piles of cars.  It was then he remembered why he’d joined the force
so many  years ago. He’d  wanted to do  good, to see  that justice was  served. He thought  of his
friend Mike, whose  life had been snuffed out, and  of his daughter who was being  held captive. And
those thoughts all focused back on the fiendish Vinnie, somewhere out there in the yard.

The wail of sirens  could be heard more strongly now, easily drowning  out the comforting prayers of
one Bart Keller, still crouched on 462 KEN MERRELL

the ground  next to the  trailer, holding the  wounded officer in his  arms. With the  restless dogs
primed for  their mission, Smitty signaled  the women to  return to the  safety of the car.  Then he
climbed to the top of  the stack, a veritable king of Wilsons Junk Yard, and  began to leap from one
pile of  cars to  the next, the  pack of  dogs following  below. Vinnie, unable  to tell  from which
direction the  babbel came in the  echoing maze of  autos, struggled to reach  the top of a  pile of
cars. From his perch, he looked on in disbelief as Tarzan of the Junkyard leapt closer and closer at
every bound. Drawing  a bead on the dancing  figure, he squeezed off three  rounds. Smitty stumbled,
then plunged  between two closely  stacked piles  of cars. There  he lay, half  unconscious, tightly
wedged two feet off the oily ground.

Clambering triumphantly down from the cars, Vinnie, his adrenaline flowing and intent upon finishing
off his  prey, continued to  weave his way  through the junkyard, once  more following the  sound of
whining dogs.  Then suddenly, floating  not more than  20 feet in front  of him, came  an unexpected
sight. Illuminated by the flicker from a cigarette lighter, Bino’s face appeared. The lank man was
lighting a smoke. He couldn’t  tell if Bino was aware he was there or  not; his face registered no
look of alarm. But whether he was aware of it or not, the two-bit gambler was standing guard between
himself and the fallen Smitty, who was in danger  of being licked to death by the pack of distressed
dogs.  Vinnie continued  squinting at  the strange  sight.  Each time  Bino sucked  air through  the
cigarette, its tip cast an orange glow down the front of his coat.

Less than 25  yards away, Smitty struggled to  force air into his cramped lungs.  The confused dogs,
sensing his desperation, began to howl. Vinnie raised  his weapon and stepped out into the open. The
smell of gasoline was strong  in the air, as a steady drip seeped from the  gas tank of a nearby car
struck by  one of Vinnie’s wild  bullets. “Bino?” intoned Vinnie,  as if he were  staring at a
ghost.

Bino didn’t  flinch. “Drop your gun  . . .  or burn in  hell,” he muttered, speaking  over the
eerie yelps and whimpers.

Vinnie smirked. “You wearin’ a preacher’s coat?”

“Drop your gun,” Bino repeated, a bit louder.

Vinnie lifted his chin and laughed at the moon. “What, you’ve come to send me off?” he roared.
Suddenly his head  dropped and he lunged forward,  firing a single shot directly  at Bino’s heart.
Bino staggered

THE IDENTITY CHECK

463

backwards, a  shrill hissing sound streaming  from his chest.  The light-weight metal bottle  he had
strapped to his shoulders  dropped from under the preacher’s coat and  tumbled at Vinnie’s feet,
gently rocking back and forth before coming to rest  in a well-worn loader track in the road. Vinnie
glanced down at  the puddle of gasoline he was  standing in as the gust of  oxygen buffeted his pant
leg and up his front.

Bino snatched  the stub from  his lips and  stuck it between his  thumb and forefinger.  A miniature
cascade of glowing sparks shot through the air. In near perfect form, the cigarette butt hurtled end
over end and  bounced against Vinnie’s lapel. Vinnie  slapped at the glowing stick,  but failed to
keep it from ricocheting off his chest and dropping steadily to the ground.

Reverend Keller  looked up from  his prayer as  a “whoosh!” filled the  air and a  tiny mushroom
cloud rose  above the  heaps of  cars to  the north. Seconds  later, a  bevy of  government vehicles
skidded to a  stop in the drive.  Grandpa then stumbled from  the trailer, holding a  washrag to his
head, a trickle of blood dripping between  his fingers. “Father,” the reverend said, casting his
eyes once more to the  heavens. “I’m sorry. I’m sorry for the loss of  one of your children. I
will try harder. I promise. . . .”

464 KEN MERRELL

FIFTY

THE SUN ASCENDED IN  A BLAZE of glory to the  east as dark desert clouds gathered  from the west and
began to  boil over  the dusty  junkyard. A  few reporters lingered  on the  porch like  hungry dogs
waiting for one last table  scrap. Each hoped to cull one final tidbit  of information from the army
of iron-jawed agents out combing the wreckage for any undiscovered clues.

Reverend Keller emerged from the seclusion of  the trailer’s tiny utility room, where he’d spent
the last  three hours on his  knees. The prayer  had been mostly  of thanks, mixed with  fervent and
persistent pleadings. Pleadings for Vinnie, a man burned beyond recognition, appeals for him to live
if his soul was worth  saving, or, if not, that his suffering would  be minimal. Petitions on behalf
of another  man, Bino, brave beyond  words, who heroically had  peeled the borrowed jacket  from his
shoulders to smother the  flames, despite the serious burns received to his  hands and face. Prayers
for a young girl so  petrified during her three-days in captivity that he knew  only God and her own
father would be able to  teach her how to feel safe again. Cries of mercy  for the mute who had been
rushed to the hospital for a CT scan of  his cracked skull. Prayers of hope that Ritter’s life had
been spared. A simple  supplication in behalf of the devoted and tireless  Cap’n, that he would be
comforted as he  steadfastly stayed by the side  of his friend. And, last but  not least, entreaties
that the unforgettable,  skinny vagabond Sound would  peacefully and valiantly realize  his dream of
passing through the beautiful  door leading to the other side. But,  again, the reverend’s prayers
were mostly of thanksgiving,  thanks for the lives spared, thanks that the  medical team had arrived
so quickly, thanks that so many wonderful individuals and families could go on loving and living.

The moment Keller walked out  on the front porch and gazed up into  the darkening sky, the storm’s
first big raindrop splattered on the top of his  shiny head and drizzled down past his cheek. It was
as if a smiling tear had

THE IDENTITY CHECK

465

sought him out,  to tell him, at that very  moment, that everything would work out  for the best. He
climbed into his van  and made his way back onto  the frontage road. He thought of  the day that lay
ahead. Cook  was probably scooping mush  and listening to  the complaints of hungry  patrons wanting
cold orange juice  and milk again. A fridge that  had once housed a body probably  should be retired
for good. It might  be a good day to go shopping  for a new one. Yup, it was  back to the grindstone
again. No rest for thewicked, he thought.

He smiled as he merged  onto the freeway. Rolling his window down a tad,  he smelled the desert air,
washed clean  by the  cleansing storm. A  persistent mist  shot up  in front of  him, the  result of
spinning tires hammering on  rain-drenched asphalt. It hovered in the damp,  electric air, then came
to rest on nearby plants, oncoming windshields, or  back onto the pavement to be trounced once more.
In  essence, in  filling  the measure  of  its creation,  the  rain–each individual  droplet–was
evolving through  its cycle  of existence.  Already in town,  Mitch and  Stephanie milled  about the
hospital, waiting for Grandpa to  get the last of the stitches pulled tight  on his tough old skull.
He was retelling the story for the fifth time that day. The doctor’s assistant, busily closing the
wound, nodded politely as  he listened to the chilling narrative of how  the bullets slapped the bed
in the dark  room as he rolled  across it, tumbled off, and  struck his head on  the nightstand. The
minute Nurse was  released from custody, she climbed on  a bus and headed for New  York, New York. A
fax from Congressman MacArthur  and a brief chat via cell phone convinced  the management to let her
up to the 8th-floor room.

Unlocking the deadbolt and pressing her head inside, instantly she knew what had happened. The smell
of death enshrouded the entire room. Cap’n stood  at the window, still holding Sound’s limp body
in his arms and speaking softly, telling him  of the passing thunderstorm. Reverently she stepped to
his side and looked out across the valley,  pensive, serene. “He loved th’ rain, didn’t he?”
she said at last. “I watched him dance in  th’ puddles in Eddie’s alley one day ‘bout a year
ago.”

Squinting through the tears,  Cap’n peered down at the stooped little woman;  she gazed up at him.
Her eyes too had  flooded over. Notwithstanding her pained, glum spirit,  she smiled, gently coaxing
his cheeks also to lift.  His words came in labored sobs. “You was . .  . afraid he might get sick
‘gain.”

466 KEN MERRELL

Nurse chuckled softly and again  scanned the overcast horizon. “I wanted t’ tan  his hide. . . .
Spent all them days nursin’ him back t’ health, an’ how’d he repay me? Danced in th’ rain.
. . .”

A droll grin  appeared on Cap’n’s face. “And  then he had t’ start  runnin’, you chasin’
him with a stick an’ all. Funniest thing I ever seen–an old woman, soakin’ wet, chasin’ some
skinny fella down the alley with a stick in her hand.”

“He knew I was funnin’ with him, didn’t he?”

“He knew, all right. His dancin’ in the rain was his way of showin’

how much he cared ‘bout you. I think it was  ‘bout the best compliment any man could pay. He was
alive and kickin’; shakin’ an’  bakin’. Wanted you to know it; wanted you  to know you had a
part in it.”

“He knew  he was dyin’. We  knew, too, didn’t  we Cap’n? But  after his rain dance,  I never
heard a word a’ complaint come from his lips.”

Cap’n looked down into the calm visage of his compatriot and friend, and whispered, “Ya’ know,
he sighed. . . . When he opened the door, he sighed.”

“Musta’ been rainin’ there too.”

“Probably was.”

Cuddled side by side,  they stared across the newly-scrubbed landscape a  few silent moments longer.
Then Nurse  stretched her  warped hands  to help pry  Sound’s stiff  body from  Cap’n’s frozen
grasp. “Here, now . . . let’s put him down.”

It was two  days before word came in from  the hospital: Vinnie had died. That  same day, Ritter’s
body was found by  a passing motorist. A father and  his young son had gotten out  of their truck to
explore along the highway. The smell had sent them searching.

For the local G-men, the taxing week had become even more taxing, what with the spate of reports and
follow-up reports and  non-stop phone calls. Wilding had resisted  wiring the fifty-thousand dollars
to Yorkshire, until Reverend Keller reminded him it  wouldn’t cost the government a dime. You see,
explained Keller,  Vinnie’s attorney had  previously put up  a fifty-thousand-dollar bail  bond on
Ritter. It was the only–and best–way for the posted money to be spent.

Aside from the FBI, most everyone else had caught their collective breath and were ready to saturate
their lives  with some mind-numbing  dullness. Each assessed  the part he or  she had played  in the
often dizzying, exhaust-

THE IDENTITY CHECK

467

ing previous two weeks.

Cook–all by himself–had managed  to get Errol on the plane to London.  A day later, the reverend
had worked  out the  details to get  him in  a local  drug program in  England. Phoning  the program
manager, Keller  had explained, “I assure  you, sir, I’ve known  Mr. Ritter for many  years. You
know as  well as I  do that  in the first  few days they’ll  say anything  to get out.  He’ll be
himself again when you get him cleaned up. . .  . Yes, doctor, you have a good day too. Cheery-o.”
He hung up the phone. When Cook shot him  a funny look, Keller justified his words. “That wasn’t
even close to a lie.  Ritter will be himself again in a few days–Errol Ritter,  that is. . . . And
what did you give him, anyway, to get him on that flight?”

“A couple of sleeping pills,” answered Cook. “I told him they’d get him at least 30-thousand
feet off the ground.”

The reverend laughed,  then peered around the big  man to the doorway, where stood  a woman, peeking
into the office. “Excuse me?” she said. “Is one of you Reverend Keller?”

Cook, not  wanting to  ruin his reputation,  replaced his grin  with a  glower and marched  from the
office, muttering under  his breath about the  new fridge–donated by one of  the big hotels–that
hadn’t yet arrived.

“I guess that would be me,” the reverend chuckled. “Please come in. How can I help you?”

The woman reached into her purse. “I’m Linda Hart,” she said. “You sent me this letter?”

Keller felt a jolt shoot up to his brain and back down his to his toes.

“Come in . . . sit  down. Sorry my office is such a mess. Sunny. . .  . I mean Greg’s helping me
put a new zip drive in my computer. I expected him back an hour ago.”

She settled herself on the edge of her seat and asked point-blank,

“Did Greg really write this letter?”

“He did–straight from the heart.”

Linda stared down at the floor. Then  her eyes penetrated Reverend Keller’s relaxed gaze. “Would
you be willing to help us?”

“I’d be more than willing,” he said over the yells and hurried footsteps out in the gymnasium.
He rose and stepped over to the door to see what all the commotion was about.

Nurse was shuffling across the wood-slat floor, with Greg a step behind.

“We gots good news,” she crowed.

468 KEN MERRELL

“We have good news,” corrected Greg.

“Whatever .  . .”  Nurse said, a  bit put  out by his  constant nagging. She  coasted up  to the
reverend and focused her new eyes on his, ready to deliver the knock-out bulletin.

But Greg interrupted her account with a teasing “If’n ya’ wants my hep, ya’ gots t’ say it
right!”

“Ok-ay, ok-ay, smart al-eck,” she said, accentuating each syllable.

“We have good  news to tell you.” With every  fourth word she spoke, her new  teeth stuck to her
gums for  just a split second,  leaving her frustrated. And  so she yielded to  Greg’s grammatical
graces. “You just go ‘head an’ tell him so’s it don’t take so long.”

“So it doesn’t . . .”

“Jus’ say it!” she hooted.

Greg flinched in  mock alarm, then started in.  “The results came back from  the neurologist. They
think they can stimulate the speech centers in  Smitty’s brain by removing some of the scar tissue
from the frontal lobe of his left hemisphere.”

The reverend smiled. “Funny how things work isn’t it?” he said.

“An’ that ain’t all. Tell him, Sunny,” Nurse added excitedly.

“Isn’t all.”

Nurse’s penetrating glare–a genuine ‘dirty look’–spoke more than a thousand words. She was
fed up with  his nitpicking and meddling and just  wanted him to get on with  the conversation. Greg
swallowed and smiled  sheepishly as she waved him  to carry on. He wrapped his  arm around Nurse’s
spindly shoulder and resumed  his account, deliberately peppering it with  a decidedly poor southern
twang. “This  here ol’ woman tramped  into Antonio Domenico’s hospital  room–all by herself,
mind ya’–and asked if  he’d be interested in payin’ the cost a’  the surgery. And when she
came out,  he’d not  only agreed t’  pay fer  Smitty, but  also t’ be  a permanent  sponsor of
Keller’s Kitchen  and .  . .”  Greg’s drawl  was stopped  cold as  his gaze  fell on  the most
beautiful woman  he’d ever seen, standing  in the reverend’s doorway.  Keller’s brow furrowed.
Giving Nurse a  dirty look of his own, he  began to scoot her away. “A  crime boss? Rats! What’d
you tell him?” he bickered. “We can’t accept . . .”

Nurse wasn’t paying any mind to Keller’s squawks. “No wonder he’s been pinin’ over her,”
she said, beaming. “She seem’s like a fine woman.”

“Nurse, what did you do?”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

469

Nurse soaked the moment for all it was worth. “She’s a fine lookin’

woman. . . .”

“I can’t accept money that’s been cursed.”

“No need t’ bellyache, Reverend. Don’t give it no mind. Man asked how he could be a’ service
t’ his new neighborhood, an’  I give him a thought ‘r two. Want’s  t’ do it, though, I’m
tellin’  ya’. If’n  he’s gonna  have a  fancy new  hotel in  this city,  he don’t  need no
problems from nobody. Want’s t’ fit in, is all. If’n you know what I mean.”

“If–the word  is if!” grumped Keller.  Nurse pursed her  lips. “Don’t need two  a’ ya’
tellin’ me how t’ talk.”

The reverend glanced over at  Greg, who sat in the corner, talking with  his wife. They were holding
hands. “I think  there will be only  one of us from here  on out. Besides, who’s  going to teach
Smitty to talk if you don’t learn how yourself?”

“Point well taken,” she said.

Across the room, Greg’s fingertips lightly stroked Linda’s hand.

“You didn’t take off your ring.”

“I didn’t finish filing the papers. . . . I see you didn’t take yours off, either.”

Greg tugged at his ring, trying to pull it free. “It wouldn’t come off,” he teased. Then, just
like  that, the  ring slipped  off his  finger. “I  guess I  finally lost  a little  weight,” he
laughed. Using a  firm, twisting motion, he anchored  it back on. “It wouldn’t feel  right if it
wasn’t there.”

Linda gave  her husband the  once-over. “You look good,”  she said. “Yes,  you’ve definitely
lost some weight.”

Greg  nodded, still  twirling  the ring  loosely  on  his finger.  He  felt the  load  of guilt  and
selfishness  he’d been  carrying  gradually lifting  from  his  shoulders. He  gazed  over at  the
reverend, now heaven-bent on  helping Nurse with her English. He’d helped  him, too. “I know,”
he said.

“It feels good.”

In a weird and ironic  twist of fate, both Bino and Vinnie had ended up  in the same burn unit, only
two beds away from each other. One man lay  in utter pain, bitter and scared, blindly lashing out at
anyone in his path–including a good reverend who came to offer comfort. In everlasting hatred, the
man  dismissed the  preacher’s visit  as the  act of  a “blankety-blank  goody two-shoes.”  He
didn’t need a preacher because there was no God.

. . . Even in the one moment when he’d caught a glimpse of Bino, he’d 470 KEN MERRELL

declared his disgust and told him he’d see him in hell. The other man, meanwhile, was learning how
to love  and forgive. .  . . He  knew it  all needed to  start with himself.  The young girl  at his
bedside was learning right along with him. In  addition to trying to patch up the multiple emotional
and spiritual wounds,  Bino, at the insistence of  his doctors, was already working  with a physical
therapist. Three times  a day she would  come by to help  him stretch his muscles  and maintain good
range  of motion  in his  joints. The  painful  sessions, in  Bino’s mind,  were all  part of  the
soulrefining process. His oxygen had been boosted to near  a hundred percent to keep his stats up to
a normal level. It would  be months before he would recover, if ever.  He knew that, in truth–even
with God’s help and the hope and prayers of others–it would take years for both him and Angelina
to fully recover. “It must  have been . . . terrible for you,”  Bino whispered through the pasty
layers of thin bandages stuck to his face.

“But you killed him, Daddy,” she said, a note of triumph in her innocent voice. “It said so in
all the papers. You’re a hero.” His beloved Angelina looked down proudly at her father. Her dark
eyes seemed to  be searching for a reason to  hate. “I’m no hero,” Bino struggled  to say, his
teeth clenched.

“I waited too long . . . to put out the flames.”

“But he shot you, he deserved to die.”

Bino thought back to that  night long ago on the streets of LA. He’d  hesitated a second too long.
The consequences  had been deadly. An  innocent life had  been taken, two families  left fatherless.
“I can never

. . . revel in it, Angelina. A man . . . is dead. He had . . . to be stopped.”

“But he sent those men to kidnap me.”

“I know . . . it must have been . . . terrible.”

“It was.” The girl’s lip began to quiver–then she broke down, sobbing.

“Now, now,” Bino whispered sympathetically. He lifted his bandaged hand and put in on hers. Then
he began to  speak of forgiveness. Angelina  needed to find it in  her heart to forgive  him for his
horde of mistakes; they  both needed to find a way  to forgive the man who had  brought them so much
sorrow.

The congressman and his wife sat side by side on the sofa, the distance between them having narrowed
considerably over the  preceding two days. Somehow he’d  managed to stay away from  the throngs of
reporters, with their prying cameras and microphones.  And somehow he’d learned the power of those
simple words: “I’m sorry.” Even without counseling, he’d

THE IDENTITY CHECK

471

begun to realize the myriad blunders he’d made in his marriage. Now he was intent on mastering the
relationship skills  he’d long neglected.  The meek  yet confident little  man facing them  on the
swivel chair was named Paul. The lilliputian wire-rimmed spectacles that perched on his fragile nose
were in stark  contrast to his enormous bald  head. Equally out of place was  his curious, whimsical
personality.  Dry puns  and  clever quips  spewed  almost at  will  from the  mouth  of this  rather
mousy-looking fellow.  He spoke with  a funny  lisp, a flaw  that strangely accentuated  his playful
temperament. There was no  extravagant office, no fancy doctor’s degrees on the  wall. But the man
had come highly recommended, compliments of an ex-plumber who’d fixed his overflowing toilet years
before. Once  the preliminary  getting-to-know-you questions were  out of the  way, Paul  turned his
discerning  gaze  on Dalton  MacArthur  and  asked,  “What do  you  want  to accomplish  in  these
sessions?”

The congressman spoke  candidly of his weaknesses. “I  need to learn how to  communicate and bring
love back into my home. For many years I’ve been guilty of shoving it away.”

“Good, good,” nodded the counselor. “And you, Mrs. MacArthur?”

“I  want my  family back.  I want  us  to be  close, to  be able  to  say how  we feel  and to  be
understood.”

“I think, with some effort, we can find a way,” Paul said, connecting the tips of his fingers to
form a little  pyramid. “I want you to try  a little experiment with me. Will  you do that?” The
couple nodded. “Mrs.  MacArthur–do you mind if I call  you Levina? . . . Fine.  Levina, will you
kneel on the carpet for a moment?” She knelt down. “Now, Congressman MacArthur–or should I say
Dalton? . . . fine–would you please stand up on the couch?”

He hesitated. “With my shoes on?”

“Sure,” Paul nodded, “the  shoes will be fine.” The congressman  tentatively lifted one foot
onto the couch, then brought the other up.

“Now, Levina, look up at him.” Lifting her face, she gazed into her husband’s eyes. “Now how
do you feel?”

For a  full 30 seconds Levina  knelt there, her eyes  riveted on the imposing  figure standing above
her, her fixed stare boring into her husband’s soul.  Then she began to tear up. She raised a hand
in embarrassment as  the congressman, towering above  her, shifted nervously on his  feet. Then Paul
stood up and reached for the congressman’s hand.  “Here, let me help you down.” He was brought
into a  kneeling position,  facing his  wife. Interlocking  the couple’s  hands, Paul  next asked,
“Now, how does this feel?”

472 KEN MERRELL

Each looked over at the other. Levina smiled through her tears. “This feels better.”

Paul nodded, then  continued. “Now hold each other close.  . . . As you do,  Dalton, tell me about
the first time you met your beautiful wife, your sweetheart. What attracted you to her?”

Dalton opened his mouth, but nothing would come out, he was so overcome with emotion. Finally he was
able to speak–and the words and tears flowed freely.  “I loved her right from the start . . .”
As he spoke,  the feelings in the room  magically changed from friendship and tolerance  to deep and
lasting love. When he’d finished, Paul turned to invite Levina to share her feelings.

More tears  were shed, bridges were  spanned, hearts were mended,  and the hour was  soon over. Paul
checked his calendar. “I’ll see you next week then?”

The congressman instinctively reached for his planner, then paused.

“Yes, of course. We’ll be flying home once a week to be with our family.”

“Good.  Let me  say how  much  I admire  you both.  Two  beautiful people–thrill  seekers, in  a
way–willing to come back for  more fun and excitement. We have a lot of work  to do, but I can see
it will be worth it.”

The last of Mitch and  Stephanie’s things had been loaded on the back of  the wrecker and a rented
trailer hitched  behind when Joan pulled  into the driveway next  door. The battered El  Dorado, its
brakes grinding,  rumbled to  a halt at  the side  of the house  and Joan got  out. Mitch  looked to
Stephanie for her approval. Taking her by the hand they turned toward Joan.

“Good morning,  Joan,” Mitch  called out  as they walked  together up  the drive.  “How’s Al
doing?”

Joan appeared more  ragged than ever. Her  arm was cast and  strapped to her shoulder  with a sling.
Dressed  in her  waitress outfit,  she’d already  been off  work at  least three  hours. “He’s
responding,” Joan said warily, her raspy voice heavier than her arm.

Mitch cleared his throat and said, “We want to thank you for what you did.”

Joan shrugged. “The putz had it comin’.”

“Will they prosecute?”

“Who knows. He can’t even lift a spoon to his mouth, let alone

THE IDENTITY CHECK

473

defend himself on attempted rape charges.”

Hard-pressed to know what to say next, Mitch rotated  his bum wrist, still sore from his run-in with
the police. “So . . . what will you do?”

Joan, storm clouds  gathering in her eyes and  thunder in her breast, looked back  and forth between
Mitch and Stephanie. “I don’t know. I’ve been married to the man almost thirty years. He might
just make a  better husband being spoon  fed than he was  before.” She peered off  down the lonely
cul-de-sac, her eyes  flooding with grief. Stephanie  nodded, her heart filled  with compassion. The
woman had lost her husband and son in the same day, one from a disabling blow to the head, the other
to a five-year sentence in the Federal penitentiary. Mitch, sensing his wife’s heartbreak, reached
over and pulled  her close. Joan saw how in  love the young couple were. An  anxious quiet fell over
the little gathering. How she wished she could feel even  a fraction of that kind of love in her own
life.

Stephanie’s heart finally burst. “I’m so sorry,” she wailed, wrapping the woman in her arms.
Joan guardedly returned the embrace. It had been so long since she hugged someone. Pulling Stephanie
in a  bit closer, she then  released her grip,  laughed–or rather, coughed–wiped her  cheeks and
said, “Ah, what the  heck. I’ll make do. I’ve got  one less mouth to feed and  one more kid to
raise. He’ll sit around watching TV, not that much different than before. At least he won’t talk
back no more.” Another awkward hush fell over the trio, this time a bit less stifling.

Finally Stephanie said, “Thank you again. You’re about the bravest woman I’ve ever met.”

Joan let  out a hearty laugh.  “That wasn’t bravery, girl.  That was thirty years  of bottled-up
frustration, all cocked behind that baseball bat.” She laughed again to hide the pain. Then before
picking up a sack of groceries from the front  seat and traipsing into her slightly more tidy house,
she ended  by saying, “The  best of luck  to both of you.  You let me  know when those  babies are
born.”

“We will,” Stephanie promised.

Hand in hand,  Mitch and Stephanie made their way  down the driveway, across the weeds,  and back to
the wrecker. He opened her door, then pulled her close, cradled under his arm, and asked, “How’d
you do that?”

“Do what?”

“Make friends with her?”

474 KEN MERRELL

The question  was a healing  balm to Stephanie’s  ears. She could  never understand how  Mitch got
along so  well with the punks  down the street. Maybe  she’d finally discovered a  clue. “It’s
simple. She doesn’t have anybody.”

“I know.”

“She’s a lonely, broken-hearted  woman with a broken man and little  hope for happiness. Believe
it or not, as rotten as Al is, he’s all she has.”

Mitch took  her cheeks in his  hands and drew her  face up to his.  “If you were all  I had,” he
sighed, “it  would be  enough for  a lifetime.  But it  doesn’t stop  there. You’re  giving me
children and joy–and love.  You stood by me through a terrible ordeal,  and trusted me when nobody
else did, when  everything looked bleak. Your  heart is so warm and  gentle and so full  of love and
kindness that I’ll never catch up. You’re as beautiful  on the inside as you are on the outside,
and I swear, as long as I live, I’ll never do anything again to make you doubt me.”

Tears of relief and joy streamed down Stephanie’s  cheeks as she held Mitch’s big hands in hers.
Levina, yellow  rubber gloves covering  her hands,  plaid apron around  her waist, stepped  from the
front door of the empty house and looked out on the couple, caught up in a tender kiss. Their mutual
love was  warm and full of  understanding, a companionship based  on kindness and respect,  one that
could withstand the bumps  of life’s journey, its battery of  frightening blizzards and inevitable
changes. Surely there would  be sadness and suffering along the way, but  also great joy and growth.
Slightly flustered, Levina remained on the porch. At last she called out, “I don’t mean to break
you two lovebirds up, but the house is nearly  clean and Dalt just called. He’s waiting to talk to
you.” She peeled the gloves from her hands, dropped them in the cleaning bucket she’d set on the
step, and came towards the truck. “We can finish this up tomorrow.”

Mitch, thinking  they’d been  hidden behind the  truck, stepped back,  self consciously  wiped his
eyes, and  helped Stephanie up into  the cab. Then he  opened the other door  for his mother-in-law.
“I’m sorry it’s such a piece of junk,”  he apologized. “I don’t think we’ve ever had a
woman ride in it before.”

“Don’t apologize,” Levina smiled. “Dalt and I had our share of junkers along the way. So you
just don’t let him give you a hard time  about your hotrods. Deep down, he’s been dying to drive
your GTO. He’s always wanted one.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

475

A look of surprise flooded Stephanie’s face. “Really? ”

Mitch grinned. “Maybe we could go for a ride tonight.”

“That’s why  I had  to break  up that  cute love  scene. We  don’t want  to keep  your grandpa
waiting, and I’ve been dying to finally try that junkyard dog stew.”

Mitch backed from  the drive and pulled away. When  he neared the end of the  street, he checked the
rearview mirror. The house appeared dismal and hollow. He wouldn’t miss the place, nor the gunfire
at night, nor the gang-bangers smoking their weed  and flashing their signs. Even now it seemed like
a whole other world, a hard past that held  a multitude of memories. The thought of Stephanie having
her parents back didn’t seem real, either. And living in their home for a while was an even wilder
thought.

“You’ll let us pay rent, won’t you?” he pestered for a third time.

“Don’t be silly,” Levina smiled. “You’re doing  us a favor. It’s been a nightmare trying
to keep up with two places. Whenever we come home it seems like all we do is sort through junk mail,
throw away the  newspapers, and buy a  few groceries before heading back  to D.C. And we  do have an
ulterior motive,” she added, a gleam in her eye. “You’ll be hosting us for dinner once a week.
That’ll  be your  rent.”  She turned  to Mitch  and  gave him  a  little poke  on the  shoulder.
“It’ll take a brave man to have his in-laws staying in his home so often.”

Mitch laughed aloud. “After the couple of weeks we’ve had, it’ll be a treat.”

476 KEN MERRELL

EPILOGUE

STEPHANIE LAY RESTING in  her hospital bed. After thirteen long hours of  labor, enough pain to make
Mitch begin to wonder if it was all worth  it, several bouts with despair and short tempers, and the
amazing epidural that had made the last hour  the most incredible experience of the young couple’s
lives,  the work  was done.  Two  tiny, perfect  newborns, their  bodies  a bit  swollen from  their
prolonged and dramatic curtaincall, lay at their  mother’s breast. Darcy was born first, with lots
of curly, strawberry-blonde  hair and long legs like  her mother’s. Drake, the bigger  of the two,
was a little  less willing to come into  the world. Breech, he’d refused to  be turned. (Stephanie
later joked  that he’d acquired  his dad’s stubborn streak.)  After a touch-and-go  delivery, he
made his arrival. Poor Mitch  had worried that the doctor was going to  pull the little guy’s legs
off as he tugged him free. His blonde hair also had a touch of red.

Mitch was a bit protective at first, insisting  that Stephanie get some rest before the onslaught of
well-wishing friends. While she  slept, he helped bathe, weigh and cuddle his  babies. He decided to
wait a few hours to make the calls to announce their good fortune.

The first call  he placed was to Grandma and  Grandpa MacArthur. Levina, only a little  put out that
she hadn’t  been notified Stephanie had  finally gone into labor–after  three false starts–was
delighted at the  news. Fortunately the wee ones had  arrived on a weekend, when they  were in town,
and they came right over.

Grandpa Wilson was the first to arrive at the hospital, Smitty right on his tail. With two months’
growth of hair on the mute’s head, the  zigzag scar was hardly noticeable. He still struggled with
his newfound voice, but  managed a timid “Hello.” The color in Grandpa’s  face was back to its
normal purplish shade. His  bluster had returned to full color as well,  now ornery as ever. “Land
sakes, you two. You kept this old man waitin’

too long,” he chided. “Wouldn’t you know it, she delivered a week late.”

THE IDENTITY CHECK

477

He bent over and gave Stephanie a gentle hug. She chastised him for the little love pat and made him
come back for a real  hug, the kind that lights up a room. Then he  turned to the door, wringing his
hands impatiently.  “Now, where are  them little tykes?” he  grouched. Mitch explained  that the
pink lady had gone to get them and she  would be there soon. Grandma and Grandpa MacArthur were next
to appear.  The congressman actually met  Mitch with a congratulatory  embrace and a grin  as big as
Nevada. After all was said and done, it was the ‘boy from the junkyard’

who’d given him something more important than all the votes in Nevada: his first grandchildren.

The excitement waned slightly  the moment Cap’n entered the room, along  with Reverend Keller. The
big black  man still wore a  small yellow ribbon  on each strap of  his worn coveralls, in  honor of
Sound. But today, he announced, was the day to  take them off. He’d promised himself that when the
newborns arrived he, like them,  would begin anew. It was time to leave  the sad memories behind and
fill his  days with good ones.  The 14-by-12-foot private room  nearly burst at the  seams when Greg
stopped by with his  wife and two children. The sight sent chill  bumps up Reverend Keller’s body.
The former wreck’s  face now registered the  smile of a blackjack winner–without  all the excess
baggage. The  nurses at  the desk  debated as  to whether  or not  they should  limit the  number of
visitors, but  seeing the joy  brought by and  taken away by the  guests, they promptly  shelved the
matter.

The room hummed  with congratulations, introductions, handshakes  and hugs. It was  Smitty who first
spied the  little cart  coming down the  hallway. As  if he’d planned  the climactic  occasion, he
paraded into the room, clapped his hands together, and waited for the cart to near the door. Then he
announced, in broken English, “Presenting Drake and Darcy Wilson!”

The room erupted  with excitement and wild  applause. Drake immediately scrunched  his wrinkled face
began to cry at the ruckus. The old woman  pushing the cart bent down, gently hefted the infant into
her arms, and  clucked her tongue to pacify the  startled little child. A hush fell  over the packed
room as  she leveled her crooked  finger at the  crowd and said  in a whisper, her  chronic southern
drawl firmly in place,

“If’n you’re gonna make my babies cry, I’ll get a stick and chase ever’ one a’ ya’ out
a’ here.  Their mama gots t’  feed ‘em, anyways.” Mrs.  Lambert appeared chic in  her satiny
pink jacket. Oh, how she loved the work–478 KEN MERRELL

especially on  a day such as  this day. She  handed the baby to  Stephanie and went to  fetch Darcy.
Cap’n, tears of joy streaming down his face, took  in a deep breath and reached down to remove the
pins that held the faded ribbons on his straps.  Reverend Keller stretched out his hand and took the
battle-scarred strips of cloth, tucking them into his pocket, a silent prayer of thanks on his lips.

