Desperate Choices





DESPERATE CHOICES

by

Jeanette Cooper

Free e-book edition



* * * * *

Desperate Choices

Copyright © 2011 by Jeanette Cooper





* * * * *

DESPERATE CHOICES

“Welcome”



Synopsis:

Rochelle Rathbone flirts with danger  and becomes involved with Tobias Chandler,
Miami drug  czar; thus,  setting the  stage for horrors  she never  knew existed
until after their  marriage. Guarded around the clock in  his Miami mansion, she
becomes his prisoner.

She devises  a desperate plan and  escapes, knowing Tobias will  come after her.
She meets and falls in love with  Michael Matheson. She knows there are only two
things that will stop his pursuit of her—

her death or his...





Prologue


Miami, Florida

Seventeen year-old Rochelle Rathbone walked out of the Miami Mall. Her hands and
arms were laden with packages containing  new clothing she purchased to spice up
her  wardrobe for  the last  weeks  of her  senior  year of  high school.  After
locating her mother's car  in the parking lot, she put her  shopping bags on the
back seat.  Sliding under the  steering wheel, she was  none the wiser  that her
life was about to take a turn down a path she would one day regret.

“Drive  carefully. Watch  the speed  limit.  Watch out  for other  drivers,”
Rochelle's mother had cautioned when handing over the car keys.

“Mama, I know how to drive,” Rochelle rebutted with her usual defensiveness.

Settling comfortably on the driver's seat,  Rochelle turned on the radio. Tuning
to a station  she liked, she turned  up the volume. After cranking  the car, she
glanced to  the left  and to the  right, trying  to see around  the rear  end of
vehicles flanking  her car. She  didn't see anything  moving, so she  shoved the
gear in reverse, planted  her foot on the accelerator too  hard, and went flying
backwards.

The sound of metal crashing against metal  rang in her ears even above the blast
of music on  the car radio. The  impact thrust her forward, banging  her head on
the steering wheel. A dizzy spell grabbed her, making her vision fuzzy.

Not until her car door was jerked open and an angry voice shouted, “Why in the
hell  don't  you watch  where  you're  going,”  did  she start  regaining  her
equilibrium.





“What?” she  muttered, touching her  hand to her  forehead where it  hit the
steering wheel. She felt a big bump there.

The angry voice softened. “Are you all right?”

“What?”

With a sigh of impatience, his hand flew  past her and turned off the car radio.
“I asked if you're all right.”

“I  think  I  am,” she  replied,  turning  to  look  at him,  and  seeing  a
businessman dressed in an expensive suit with a modest tie and a snow-white silk
shirt.

“Here, let  me have a  look.” Somewhat impatiently  he pulled her  hand away
from her forehead and touched the lump with his fingers.

“Ouch!” Rochelle yelled, jerking away when he pressed too hard.

“You probably need to have that x-rayed,” he suggested.

Rochelle looked at him, finally twisting in her  seat to gain a look at his car.
She slid  out of the driver's  seat and put  her feet on the  pavement, silently
praying her mother's car hadn't sustained damage  or else it might be the end of
her driving days.

Still feeling dizzy, she staggered and fell against the car, raising her hand to
her forehead.

The man reached out to support her. “Are you sure you're okay?”

“I think I  am,” she said, moving toward  the back of the car  where her car
bumper  lay  against a  big  dent  in  the side  of  the  man's car.  A  cursory
examination of her  vehicle showed a broken taillight and  a nearly unnoticeable
dent  on one  end of  the bumper.  “Oh  God, my  mother will  kill me,”  she
whispered in near tears. “What am I going to do?”

The man shook his head. “I'm going to pull your car forward so I can move mine
out of the traffic area and park it.”





Before Rochelle  could object,  he was  already sliding under  the wheel  of her
mother's car, cranking it, and driving it forward into the parking space.

“I'm so sorry,” Rochelle  said to the man after he moved his  car out of the
roadway.

“Do you have insurance?”

Her  face  fell in  a  worried  expression  before  she blurted  out  anxiously.
“Please don't file a  claim against my mom's insurance. I  have a little money
saved, and if it isn't enough I'll get a job and pay you every penny it takes to
fix your car.”

“Miss, I'm  sure your mother will  be so happy to  have you home in  one piece
that the damaged car won't bother her in the least.”

“You don't know my mother. She'll never let me drive again.

I've got to get the tail light fixed before I go home.”

He looked  her over carefully, from  head to toe and  liked what he saw.  A lazy
smile softened his features. “I tell you what—why don't I drive your car and
take you somewhere for a drink and we'll decide how best to handle this.”

Rochelle nodded  agreeably, eager to do  just about anything to  keep her mother
from learning  about her  wreck. She  didn't think anything  was wrong  with her
going with the man  to a restaurant or soda shop, not if  he was willing to work
with her on a payment plan.

Instead, he took her to a disco club where everyone seemed to know him.

“My name  is Tobias Chandler,” he  said, reaching his hand  across the table
after they took a booth in a dimly lit area.

Rochelle took his hand. “Rochelle Rathbone,” she said timidly.

“I can't stay long. I have to get the tail light fixed.”

Tobias ordered a coke for Rochelle and  a scotch and water for himself. “How's
that  bump  on your  head?”  he  asked, far  more  friendly  now than  he  was
initially.





Rochelle sent  him a  timid grin.  “It hurts, but  I think  it will  feel much
better  if you're  willing to  let  me pay  for the  damages  to your  car on  a
time-payment plan.”

He grinned as his  eyes scanned over her alabaster skin, her  full red lips, and
her lovely  youthful figure with firm  breasts. He shifted his  attention to her
hair, a glorious shade  of auburn red with golden highlights.  It hung down upon
her slender  shoulders in dancing  waves and  curls. Tobias Chandler  decided he
wanted Rochelle Rathbone and he always got what he wanted.

“I think we can  work something out,” he said, reaching  across the table to
touch her hand.

She sent  him a  wide, dazzling  smile, her  pink lips  looking soft,  moist and
inviting. Girlishly, she grabbed his hand and clung to it.

“Oh, thank you. Mother would never let me drive her car again if she learned I
had a wreck. I must get the taillight fixed before I go home.”

“I know where you  can take it. It'll be repaired quickly, and  then you and I
can  talk about  how  you plan  to  pay  me,” he  remarked  slyly, hinting  at
something far more intimate than money.





Chapter One


Driving her shiny new car, the  combination graduation and birthday present from
her parents, Rochelle drove to the address Tobias gave her. She was now eighteen
and felt all grown up from the  attention Tobias showered upon her. They had met
frequently  at out  of the  way  places, had  talked, laughed,  and petted,  but
nothing more serious. Then immediately after her birthday, he called her private
phone to invite her to his home for the first time. The invitation thrilled her.
She drove through  a neighborhood that flaunted million dollar  homes with gated
entrances. When  she came  to the house  number she sought  she pulled  into the
driveway and  stopped. A stately  mansion was secured  by a six-foot  fence with
spikes around  the top and boasted  a wrought-iron gate with  a small gatehouse.
She gazed in awe at the spacious lawns on each side of the long driveway leading
up to a huge  modern structure of mortar, stone, steel,  and plate glass windows
that reflected the blue sky.

At the entrance,  a guard, with a  magazine in his hand, stepped  from the small
gatehouse. He pushed  a button and the gates opened  with an electrical whirring
sound.  “Miss  Rathbone, drive  forward,  please.  Mr. Chandler  is  expecting
you.”

A bright smile lit  Rochelle's girlish face, and she drove  forward with a sense
of  expectancy. Awed  by such  grandeur,  she stopped  in front  of the  elegant
structure with fascinated  interest. She opened the car door,  climbing out when
she spied Tobias coming to greet her.

“Is this all yours?” she blurted out childishly. Looking upward, she saw the
outer walls of the house rising to a height of at least three stories.

Tobias ignored  the question, and kissed  her. “Come inside and  I'll show you
around.” His white  teeth flashed behind a wide smile  and he seemed genuinely
happy to see her. They were no longer strangers. They had been together a number
of  times since  their  initial  meeting. All  their  visits  had been  friendly
get-togethers. Now,  she had  just had  her eighteenth birthday  and was  at the
legal age of consent.

The  tour led  directly up  the spacious  winding stairs  to Tobias's  elegantly
decorated bedroom with a king size  bed and beautiful furnishings. Sliding glass
doors opened  onto a balcony  overlooking green  lawns. Tobias reached  his arms
around Rochelle and kissed her. His  hands moved over her body, taking liberties
beyond  the timid  familiarities  exercised over  the past  few  weeks. The  age
restriction no  longer applied and  now he would take  what he had  wanted since
meeting her.

“I've been waiting a long time for this day, baby. You know I want you.” His
eyes drank in her lovely, creamy smooth complexion and her young woman's figure.

Rochelle smiled,  feeling self-important. Her  ego became pumped up  by Tobias's
declaration of desire for her. Everything about him thrilled her. Over the weeks
when they had met clandestinely, he had  touched and fondled her, causing her to
yearn for more. Now a simple nod of her head indicated her consent.

With easy  abandon, Tobias relieved Rochelle  of her clothing and  shed his own.
His steel-gray eyes scanned her nakedness,  the act shaming and thrilling her at
once. His hands seemed to be everywhere. A spark of desire struck like lightning
as he walked her backward toward the bed,  pushing her down until she lay on her
back. She  had been  looking forward  to this moment.  Having Tobias  fondle and
entice her  over the weeks she  had known him  had developed into a  strong need
that begged for repletion. A thrill of anticipation raced through her even while
tension tightened  her muscles causing  her to recline on  the bed like  a stiff
board.

Tobias's hands slid  across her breasts and along the  curves of Rochelle's body
to send sensuous chills  along the column of her spine. He  kissed her until her
lips burned  with his kisses. He  trailed a chain  of kisses down to  one nipple
then the other. The  kisses didn't stop there. They followed a  path down to her
stomach and beyond.

Rochelle's heart pounded thunderously to her ears.

This was something all new to her. She tensed.

“Relax, baby. Just relax and enjoy it.  I'm going to make you feel so good.”
He fondled her  round breasts to prove  it and watched her  tiny rosebud nipples
rise to delicate pink peaks.





Rochelle was too  breathless to speak. She nodded her  head, her eyes beseeching
him, not knowing  what else to expect,  but her body was attuning  itself to his
intimacy.

“You want this,  don't you, baby?” he asked hoarsely,  his mouth, hands, and
fingers enticing her as never before over the entirety of her shapely body.

Rochelle's  green eyes  stretched open  wide, resembling  a frightened  doe. Her
response to Tobias's question was a yes that sounded more like a squeak.

“You have  a beautiful body,” Tobias  whispered, his voice husky.  His hands
explored her, touching, feeling, and  possessively plundering every inch of her.
He slid his fingers  up the inside of her thighs. He bent  his head again to her
lips, while  his hand and  fingers took liberties  with every valley  and curve.
Although  tense, Rochelle  became  aware of  the natural  response  of her  body
beneath his bold caresses.

Stimulated by  the fiery intensity  of his need,  Tobias moved between  her legs
taking a position on  top of her. She lay beneath him,  still and unmoving. Then
he entered  her, gently and slowly  this first time, finally  sending a stabbing
thrust to deflower her youth.

“So good, so good,” he groaned hoarsely in her ear just before his explosive
release.

He groaned, jerked, and shuddered, letting his full weight rest upon her. Unable
to breathe, Rochelle  pushed her hands against his shoulders,  and he rolled off
her, totally  spent. He spread  out his  arms and legs  in loose repose  with no
thought for  modesty. Rochelle pulled the  sheet up to cover  her, diverting her
attention to the ceiling.

Rochelle felt needy. She had reached a high point that felt like pure ecstasy in
the making, and then  nothing when Tobias finished with her.  Was that all there
was to it?  Wasn't she supposed to  experience some sort of pleasure  such as he
seemed to  gain from their sexual  encounter? An unfulfilled longing  resided in
her lower abdomen.

She glanced over at him, feeling  slightly abandoned, wishing he would hold her.
She scooted over next to him and  spread her arm across his chest, snuggling her
face up against his neck and cheek.

“Baby, you're wonderful. You made daddy feel really good.”

Rochelle winced,  wishing he wouldn't  use the word  daddy in relation  to their
intimacy.  Her daddy  would kill  her if  he knew  what she  had just  done. She
snuggled up against him, and the throbbing need inside her was slow to dissolve.



FOLLOWING THAT DAY of lost innocence,  Rochelle felt terribly grown up. What few
girlfriends she  still had seemed young  and childish, their example  of a night
out being a trip to the pizza parlor  with the gang. Such pastimes were too tame
for Rochelle now  after her induction into more grownup  activities with Tobias.
She had outgrown her old classmates.

Tobias  took her  to  posh  restaurants and  lively  nightclubs  and discos.  He
provided her a  wardrobe of expensive clothing,  which she kept at  his home. He
gave  her money  to  buy more  anytime  she  wanted. She  grew  into their  busy
nightlife, and since she wasn't twenty-one, she sipped on cokes while Tobias and
his friends drank scotch, bourbon, gin, or vodka.

Following  her graduation  from high  school, she  enrolled and  started classes
at  the  local  university.  Her and  Tobias's  secret  affair—which  Rochelle
continually  hid  from her  parents  by  telling them  she  was  going out  with
friends—went on during her freshman year at the university. When she was ready
to start her sophomore year, Tobias decided he wanted to marry her.





At about  that same time, Joshua  Rathbone, Rochelle's father, learned  that all
Rochelle's  nights out  hadn't been  trips to  the library  or outings  with her
girlfriends after all. Through friends who saw them out in public, he learned of
his daughter's relationship with Tobias Chandler.

Rochelle's parents went crazy with shock, anger, and dismay.

“For God's  sake, you have  to be out of  your mind.” Angela  Rathbone cried
hysterically. “The man is old enough to  be your father, and if that isn't bad
enough, he's  a known  criminal. Do  you have  any idea  what kind  of situation
you're getting yourself into with this man? Do you know what you're doing?”

“Mom…” Rochelle started, not with an answer, but with a rebuttal.

Before she could say more, her father interrupted. “Rochelle, you will not see
that man again.  I forbid it! Do you  understand me? I forbid it!”  he said in
raised voice  and controlled anger.  The news of  his daughter having  an affair
with Tobias Chandler was the worse news of his life.

“Dad, you  can't forbid it. I'm  a woman now and  have a right to  make my own
decisions,” she quarreled, exercising an  uncommon bravado not familiar to her
parents.

Joshua hit  the ceiling.  “A woman! Good  God, you're nothing  but a  child. A
woman  would have  better sense  than to  let that  criminal bastard  compromise
her.”

“He's  not a  bastard, and  it won't  do you  any good  to call  him names,”
Rochelle raised her  voice. “I have a  right to make decisions  about my life.
I'm doing what I want, and I won't listen to this.”

Joshua was well  aware of defiance among  young people. It had become  a sort of
juvenile revolution  with youngsters  of all  ages declaring  their independence
before they  were mature enough to  take responsibility for their  actions. Once
normal households  had become war  zones where  parents screamed and  fought for
control by attempting  to exercise parental influence, often in  a losing battle
with  their children.  With a  kind of  feel-good mentality  among youths,  they
sought life in the moment, in the fast lane. Drug use was rampant, as was sexual
promiscuity.  Youth were  in turmoil,  but Joshua  never expected  this kind  of
behavior from his daughter who had a proper upbringing.

Joshua and  Angela raised  Rochelle in a  morally prudent  environment revolving
around church, community, and civic affairs.

They submersed  her in  a life  complemented by good  up-right friends,  and set
proper  standards of  behavior  exemplified  by their  own  conduct. They  never
counted on outer influences compromising everything taught her at home.

Now, tormented  by Rochelle's  association with  Tobias Chandler,  Joshua looked
back and  wondered where he  and Angela went  wrong. Perhaps they  had protected
Rochelle too much,  instead of acquainting her  with the ills of  a sick society
filled with  drugs, perverse sex,  murder, rape, and  a hoard of  crimes against
mankind.

Knowing Rochelle  was innocent prey to  a man like Tobias  Chandler, Joshua felt
the urge to kill him for destroying his child's innocence.

“As God is my witness, Rochelle,” Joshua exploded, a rarity for his commonly
dignified manner, “I'll  damn well lock you  in your room if I  have to rather
than  see you  ruin your  life  with some  low-life criminal.  Everybody in  the
justice system knows he  runs the drug trade in Miami.  He's involved with every
low-life who has connections to the drug cartel out of Columbia.”

“That's a lie! You're saying that because you don't want me to see him,” she
argued.





“Do you  think I've defended criminals  in the courtroom all  these years with
blinders on?  The State Attorney's  office has  been seeking evidence  on Tobias
Chandler for several months now.”

“Then why haven't they arrested him?” Rochelle countered.

“Oh they will, mark my word, just as  soon as they get enough evidence to make
the  charges stick.  He's going  down  sooner or  later,  and you  can count  on
that.”

“I don't believe  any of this. You  would say anything to break  us up. You're
just saying these things about Tobias because you don't want me to see him.”

“What in  the hell  will it  take to get  through that  thick skull  of yours?
Rochelle,  Tobias Chandler  is  a known  criminal. He's  an  evil and  dangerous
man.”

Rochelle's voice rose again. “I don't believe it! I've never seen him involved
in anything connected with drugs.”

Joshua guffawed with disgust. “Did you  believe he would advertise his illegal
dealings? Of course, you don't see  anything suspicious or illegal. Neither does
anyone  else  or  the  state  attorney  would  have  squashed  his  organization
already.”

Rochelle pursed  her lips,  tilting her  head at a  disgusted angle,  and stared
defiantly from the corner of her eyes at nothing in particular.

“Let me tell you a horror story  about Chandler. A while back, I represented a
man called  Hobart Pascal,  who was one  of the cartel's  front men.  The police
charged  him  with  murdering  an  innocent man  who  accidentally  overheard  a
conversation about  a shipment of drugs.  Hobart killed the man  to silence him.
When the trial  turned sour, Chandler feared  Hobart might make a  deal with the
prosecutor's office to turn state's evidence  against him. Hobart was found hung
in his cell.”

“Then  it  was someone  else.  Tobias  would  never  do anything  like  you're
suggesting,” she stated in bitter defiance.

“No, he wouldn't  do something like that directly, but  he delegates. It's his
job to keep the  drug market running smoothly and keep the  players out of jail.
He has at least a fifth of  the police department on his payroll. Drug marketing
is  big business,  Rochelle,  and  Tobias Chandler  is  Colombia's kingpin,  the
liaison between them and drug distribution. Chandler will go down eventually and
he'll destroy you with him. Can't you see that I'm trying to protect you?”

Raising her  chin defiantly, Rochelle stated  adamantly. “Dad, I know  you and
mom mean well, and I  don't want to hurt either of you, but  I love him. I can't
give him up, and I won't give him up.”

“Rochelle, I swear  I'll lock you in  your room before I'll see  you ruin your
life on a man like Tobias Chandler,” Joshua declared, his face bright red with
anger as he  hovered threateningly above his daughter,  restraining himself from
actually hitting her for the first time in his life.

“It would be a tragic mistake for you to try such a thing, Dad. If you make me
choose, I'll leave here and go live with Tobias.”

Angela came to her feet, her face splotched red. She reached out and slashed her
hand across Rochelle's cheek. “How can you be such an idiot? Your father is an
attorney  and has  defended enough  criminals that  he knows  what he's  talking
about. You need to listen to him. Even I know what Tobias Chandler is. He'll use
you  until he  tires of  you  and then  you'll be  found  in some  lake or  dump
somewhere. Is that what you want?”

Touching her hand to  her stinging cheek, Rochelle jumped up  from her chair and
raced from the room.





Chapter Two





A stormy Saturday morning blew in with heavy pouring rain.

Thunder and lightning boomed and sliced through the atmosphere.

Rochelle took  advantage of  the storm  to sleep late.  With her  energy divided
between college classes, studying, and time spent with Tobias, she was exhausted
most the time. Last night, she made every excuse to avoid another late night out
with  him and  his associates  and  their wives,  but  he wouldn't  hear of  it.
Instead, he demanded she give up  her classes. “You won't need college classes
after you marry me,” he stated offhandedly.

His subtlety  didn't escape her.  “Is that supposed  to be a  proposal?” she
inquired with a saucy tilt to her head.

“If it were, would you say yes and give up your classes?”

“I like the idea of getting an education. Why should I give it up?”

“Because  when you  become my  wife, you  belong to  me and  I don't  want you
involved in other activities that take you away from me.”

Tobias's  possessiveness thrilled  her, making  her feel  extremely special  and
important in his life. It made her feel wanted and cared for by him. She thought
of all the hard work spent in  keeping up with her studies, and privately agreed
that  she didn't  need  to continue  her  education. If  she  married Tobias  an
education wouldn't benefit her anyway since he wouldn't want her to work.

A clap of  thunder cut through her  restful sleep, causing her to  turn over and
glance at the clock. Ten o'clock. God, she was certain she could sleep the whole
day through if she didn't have class assignments.

She  recalled Tobias's  proposal,  what  he said  about  giving  up her  college
courses. With a groan, of indecision, she rolled over and went back to sleep for
another couple of hours.

“Chelle, darling, its nearly noon. Aren't you going to get up?

You're not  sick are you?” Angela  asked, all too  aware of the busy  pace her
daughter had been keeping with classes, assignments, and Tobias Chandler.

“Ohhhh,” she groaned, rubbing her eyes, “I'd like to sleep all day.”

“Then why don't you, darling? You look  tired. I'll bring some juice and toast
up to you in a little while.”

“No, I think I'd  better get up.” She pushed herself  to a sitting position,
and slung  her legs off the  side of the bed.  Like a zombie, she  slid her feet
heavily across the floor to the bathroom.  Half asleep, she went through all the
motions routinely followed  for the past several years,  showering, brushing her
teeth,  putting on  makeup, combing  her hair,  and then  dressing for  the day.
Finally satisfied  with her image in  the mirror, she went  downstairs where her
father finished his lunch and lingered over a cup of coffee.

“Sweetheart, you look tired,” Joshua said,  glancing up as she came into the
breakfast room. He and Angela both  had made concessions in their feelings about
Rochelle seeing Chandler. They feared she  might follow through on her threat to
move in with him unless they took a tolerant position. They loved her and wanted
to protect her,  but their frustration at not  being able to do so  caused a low
undercurrent of anger at her defiance.

Rochelle yawned, covering her mouth while she pulled out a chair across from her
father. “Just trying to wake up,” she  said. The truth was, she was weighted
down and tormented  by the prospect of telling her  parents that Tobias proposed
to her.

Perhaps she would wait until dinnertime.

ROCHELLE RUSHED THROUGH her assignments so she could linger over dinner with her
parents. She waited half way through the  meal before gaining the nerve to break
the news about Tobias's proposal. She tensed in readiness for another unpleasant
scene.

“Mom, Dad, I have  something to tell you,” she said, lowering  her head in a
thoughtful pose.

Joshua and  Angela glanced at each  other, looking suddenly anxious.  They gazed
quietly at Rochelle, waiting for the shattering news neither expected.

Perhaps her nerves were acting up, Rochelle thought, but she could swear the air
crackled with electrical currents.

Best to  get right to the  point, she thought. She  blurted out her news  in one
long breath. “Tobias asked me to marry him.”

Angela dropped her  fork. It clattered against the plate.  Joshua's fork stopped
midway to his mouth. He sat frozen  in that position for several seconds in pure
shock while he stared non-blinking at Rochelle's young face.

Angela's mouth flew open and she gasped, “Oh my God!”

Joshua's hand  fell, and  the fork  hit the edge  of the  plate, bounced  on the
table,  and fell  to  the floor.  “No,  Rochelle. You  can't  do this.”  His
unusually  quiet voice  was a  plea  as the  words  quivered in  his throat.  He
swallowed spasmodically, his Adam's apple bobbing from the effort.

“Dad, I love  you,” she said persuasively, “and I  would never do anything
intentionally to hurt you  or mama, but this is my life. This  is what I want to
do with it. I want to be Tobias's wife. You have to try to understand.”

“Dear God, Rochelle, what is wrong with you?” Angela cried.

“Joshua, please talk some sense into her?”

Before Joshua could  say anything, Angela continued in a  desperate plea. “Why
are you doing this, Chelle? Why, for God's  sake, do you want to ruin your life?
There will be other  men, young men your own age.”  Sobbing, she added, “You
can't do this. You can't!”

“Mama, why can't I make you and Dad understand how I feel?

Can't you understand this is my life, not yours? I don't want anyone else except
Tobias. I beg you to understand. Your blessings are important to me.”

“Our  blessings! Good  God, do  you seriously  think we  could ever  offer our
blessings for  you to marry  a criminal?” Joshua's emotional  control, learned
from years of  being at the center  of public observation in  the courtroom, was
steadfast for the moment.

“When?” he asked solemnly, realizing the futility in attempting to argue the
point.  His daughter's  determination  defied  everything he  might  say to  her
against her decision.

“We haven't decided yet. I'd like to finish my sophomore year first.”

“And  your  junior  and  senior  years—what  about  those?”  Angela  cried
heartbrokenly.

“Tobias said  he wants me  to give up my  classes after we're  married.” She
hung her head,  feeling shame now when considering how  much her education meant
to both her parents. They had never  doubted she would complete college. She had
even thought at one time of becoming a lawyer like her father, but that would be
out now if she gave up college.

“Chelle, I beg  you not to do this?  You're going to destroy your  life if you
marry that man.” Her mother swallowed salty tears, her shoulders slumping like
an old woman's instead of the elegant forty-five year old lady she actually was.

“I'm sorry, mom. I never meant to  hurt either of you,” she whispered with a
guilty woebegone look.

The  lovely dinner  was ruined.  Joshua  pushed his  plate back,  unable to  eat
another bite.





Angela's whole body seemed to cave in, as if swallowed by the chair in which she
sat. Wringing her hands  nervously, she shook her head back  and forth, her eyes
suddenly tired and dazed.

Rochelle stared at her food, her appetite gone like her father's was.

I've broken their hearts, she thought,  suddenly feeling undeserving of all they
had done for her. Learning of her  affair with Tobias was shock enough for them,
but hearing of her  plan to marry him must surely  feel like downright betrayal.
Quietly, she got up and left the table.

Joshua and Angela took every opportunity in the coming days to talk Rochelle out
of  making the  worst  mistake  of her  life.  They  begged, pleaded,  implored,
demanded and threatened.  Through it all, Rochelle stood  her ground, declaring,
“I'm not going to  listen to any more of your arguments, so  you might as well
stop them.”

Tortured by the very idea of his daughter married to a man like Tobias Chandler,
Joshua went  into Rochelle's room when  she wasn't home, and  rifled through her
nightstand drawer until  he found Tobias Chandler's phone  number. Joshua called
him.



JOSHUA AND TOBIAS MET EARLY one morning at a small diner, that was on the way to
Joshua's  office. Both  drove into  the parking  lot only  a minute  apart. They
exited their  cars simultaneously. Stepping  forward, both men moved  toward the
front of their vehicles.

Silently, they sized each other up. Tobias spoke first.

“Rathbone, I  sure as hell  hope you  have a good  reason for dragging  me out
here. What can I do for you?”

“I'll  cut to  the chase,  Chandler. I'm  here to  ask you  to stop  seeing my
daughter.” Joshua didn't know what reaction to expect.

He knew enough about Tobias Chandler to  know he was not especially versed in PR
skills. His power  lay in command and  control, and the expertise  to get things
done quickly and stealthily so no trails would lead back to him.

Tobias chuckled arrogantly. “What's wrong,  Rathbone? Did you fail to convince
Rochelle to  break off  with me,  and now  hope to  convince me  to do  the deed
myself?”

“Chandler you and  I both know that  a marriage between my daughter  and a man
your age will never work.”

Tobias leaned against  the hood of the  car. A sickening grin  spread across his
face. “I know that  it will work as long as I want  it to,” he answered with
implied insinuations.

Joshua sucked in  a deep breath of  air. “I just hoped you  would be honorable
enough to do the right thing.”

Tobias laughed, the sound boiling out of his throat jeeringly. He reached in his
front shirt pocket and pulled out a pack of cigarettes.

Pulling one from  the pack, he stuck it  between his lips, put the  pack back in
his pocket, and then searched his  pants pockets for his lighter. Staring Joshua
in  the eyes,  he flicked  the  lighter and  put the  flame  to the  end of  the
cigarette, taking all the time in the world before voicing his answer.

Finally, after  taking a  big puff  of his  cigarette and  blowing the  smoke in
Joshua's face,  Tobias replied, chuckling.  “I thought  I was doing  the right
thing. I'm making an honest woman out of her.”

Blood  rushed to  Joshua's face.  He  seethed inside,  but he  held his  temper.
“What will it take, Chandler, to get you to leave my daughter alone?”

“You don't  have what it  takes to  get me to  do anything, Rathbone.  I never
liked you in or out of the courtroom,  and frankly, I like you even less now for
wasting my time.”

“She's my  daughter, Chandler. You must  have plenty of women  friends. Why do
you need Rochelle?”





Tobias laughed throatily. “I like her  in bed. Does that answer your question,
Mr. Rathbone?” He grinned offensively.

Joshua cringed  internally at Chandler's  crude remark.  Blood pumped up  to his
face in  scalding hot  disgust. He  sucked in his  breath, and  then let  it out
slowly, doing  his damnedest not  to let Chandler provoke  him. It took  all his
will power  to keep  control. “I'd  appreciate a show  of respect,”  he said
curtly through partly clenched lips.

“Let's get something straight, future  father-in-law. I want your daughter and
I am  going to  marry her—simple  as that. If  you know  what's best  for you,
you'll just back off  and leave the two of us alone.” He  looked Joshua in the
eyes with a mercury stare that was very serious now.

Such  words coming  from a  man like  Tobias Chandler  was a  threat. A  strange
sensation of caution and dread slid over Joshua when he realized what a depraved
and perverted individual Chandler truly was.

“I'll pay you. I'll pay whatever you ask to break off with my daughter.”

Tobias threw  back his  head and  laughed. “Do  you think  I need  your money?
Rathbone, when I am  through with her, I will serve her up  to you on a platter.
In the meantime, you're wasting my time.”

Joshua could feel  the heat in his  face. Nothing would stop this  man outside a
bullet. “She's just a kid, Chandler. You have to be nearly the same age as me.
You are old  enough to be her father.  In another ten years, you will  be an old
man, and she will still be a young  woman. Surely, you see the irony in marrying
someone young enough to be your daughter.”

“You miss  the point, Rathbone.  That's what  makes her so  interesting,” he
grinned through a disgusting twist of his lips.





Joshua reacted. All his carefully tended control  was gone. He swung a hard fist
at Tobias, hitting his jaw, and then following with a punch to his lip.

Thrown off  balance, Chandler spun awkwardly,  reaching out to grab  hold of the
car in an effort to keep from sprawling like a sack of potatoes on the pavement.

Joshua clinched  his fist to keep  from hitting him again.  “You sick bastard,
I'll not rest until you're behind  bars for your illegal activities. I'll expose
you if it's the last thing I ever do.”

Tobias rubbed his jaw and touched a  swollen lip that oozed with blood. He flung
aside the cigarette,  its red tip searing  his fingers. His eyes  were dark with
rage, but  his words  were deadly quiet  as he regained  his balance  and locked
gazes with Joshua.

“It will likely be the last thing you  ever do, you stupid son of a bitch. You
will pay for this, Rathbone. If you attempt  to come up against me, I'll see you
in hell!”

“There's ways  to stop people like  you,” Joshua threatened. In  the back of
his mind, a slight nudge warned him that his threats posed danger for him.

Tobias leaned heavily toward him, his face blood red with rage.

“You stupid bastard, you have no idea who you're dealing with.

You've just signed your death warrant, old man!”

Joshua's strength crumbled where he stood, and he backed toward his car. Pulling
the door open, he slid behind the wheel.

Never  would he  take Chandler's  threat lightly.  The man's  history spoke  for
itself. He  made people disappear, and  nothing was beyond his  sick capability.
Pure terror washed over Joshua.

Turning the key in  the ignition, he backed up, and then steered  the car out to
the street,  wishing all the while  he and his family  never had to lay  eyes on
Tobias Chandler again.  Outside of simply killing him, Joshua  was determined to
do what he could  to put Chandler out of commission. He knew  he was putting his
life on  the line, but he  could never live with  himself to sit idly  by and do
nothing when his daughter's future was at peril.

Having represented enough criminals through the court system to know better than
take a  threat lightly,  Joshua knew  the risks  of what  he planned.  To pursue
attempts  against  Tobias  to  bring  him to  justice  would  present  a  direct
challenge. He  had no doubt that  Chandler would not hesitate  to follow through
with the threat he made if he was provoked.

Joshua knew the risks of what he was up against, but his child meant too much to
him to stand by  and do nothing while she made the biggest  mistake of her life.
If it  were in  his power,  he would put  Tobias Chandler  behind bars  where he
belonged.





Chapter Three


Joshua hired a private investigator to  tail Chandler. Then he began putting his
estate in order, something he'd been meaning to do for some time. He knew better
than take Chandler's threat lightly.

Having dealt  with criminals throughout his  career, he knew how  criminal minds
worked. He also knew they could be deadly foes if provoked.

Joshua's vacation  time arrived, and  instead of  taking a cruise  as previously
planned, he and Angela flew to Montana  to the little town where his old college
chum, James Matheson, resided  and managed the local bank. He  set up a generous
savings account for  Rochelle, putting cash and necessary documents  in a safety
deposit box.





When he  and Angela  returned home,  Joshua put  another large  sum of  money in
Rochelle's name  at his bank,  and stuffed a safety  deposit box with  cash, the
total sum  enough for  her to  live on  comfortably for  years. He  made Bentley
Harrison, Rochelle's  godfather, executor of  his estate, and then  informed his
daughter of the plans put in place for her.

Rochelle was amused. “That  why you and mom went to  Montana? Dad, I'm touched
that you're thinking of my welfare,  but you're being ridiculous. What makes you
think I'll need all this financial assistance eventually?”

“Rochelle, I've decided it's no use to try and convince you of the kind of man
Tobias Chandler is. He's  a dangerous man who is capable of  about any crime you
can imagine,  and if you ever  became a threat to  him, he would snuff  out your
life in a minute. One day you'll come to know that what I'm telling you is true.
Your  refusal to  consider our  advice leaves  your mother  and me  desperate to
protect you as best we can. We've done the only thing we know to do.

We've set aside enough money so you'll never want for anything when this mockery
of a relationship turns sour, and I guarantee it will. The money will enable you
sufficient funds to live on when the time comes.”

Rochelle rolled her eyes, and made  a scoffing sound. “This is demoralizing. I
think you and Mom are losing your minds or becoming paranoiac. I've seen nothing
in Tobias's character to earn such distrust.”

More sweet delusion, Joshua thought.

“In the small town in Montana where we took you on your tenth birthday, my old
friend, James Matheson, will advise you on investments when the time comes. Take
these safety-deposit  box keys and  never, under any circumstance  tell Chandler
about them.

Promise me, Rochelle.”





Rochelle laughed,  not intending any disrespect,  but it reminded Joshua  of how
Chandler had laughed at  him while serving up taunts of  contempt. He could only
shake his head  in exasperation at his  daughter's innocent trust of  one of the
most ruthless and malevolent men in Miami, Florida.

“Okay, Dad, I promise  you I will put the keys in a  safe place and never tell
Tobias about them. You've presented your case against Tobias, and I find him not
guilty, so do us both a favor and drop it.”

“All I ask is that you avoid being too overly trusting, Rochelle.

It's not  a good trait to  have with anyone,  especially with a man  like Tobias
Chandler. Be a little wary, sweetheart. You're still too young to understand the
implications I've tried to impress upon you.”

Rochelle  threw up  her  hands and  jumped  to her  feet.  “All right!”  she
screamed. “You're driving me  crazy. For God's sake, Dad, what  is it you want
of me?”

Joshua sighed in exasperation. “I want you to be safe and happy, honey. That's
all I've ever wanted.”

She scrunched  up her face in  puzzlement as something crossed  her mind. “Has
Tobias said something to upset you?”

“No,”  he  said,  lying  outright.  He  didn't  want  his  daughter  running
interference for him. That would impose even greater danger for them.

“Rest assured,  Dad, I'll do as  you ask with the  keys if that will  make you
happy.”

Joshua nodded. He had done all he knew to do. The rest was up to her. He sighed,
and left her standing there while he rushed to his study to hide the pain behind
his moist eyes.



JOSHUA RATHBONE  BEGAN compiling what  little information the  private detective
brought him.  The stack  grew thicker  over time, but  when Joshua  reviewed it,
piece by piece, not much was usable against  Tobias in a court of law. It seemed
the man resided behind a protective glass wall where no one could touch him.

Finally, however, he got the big break he had been waiting for.

The detective brought him pictures of Tobias  having lunch with one of the local
judges, and passing  a thick envelope across the table  to the Honorable Jackson
Etheridge. Joshua felt hopeful.  At least he had a name  attached to the justice
system that the  state attorney would find worthy of  investigation. Joshua made
extra copies and put them in his safety deposit box. He wavered between going to
the police and going directly to Tobias.  He decided on the latter. His goal was
to rescue his daughter before they were married.  He hoped to use what he had as
bargaining power.

Tobias agreed  to meet with  Joshua in a parking  lot he suggested.  Joshua went
over and over  his plan, but when  he presented the pictures to  Tobias, the man
wasn't the least  intimidated. Instead, he was angry as  hell. He grabbed Joshua
by  the shirtfront  and demanded  he  back off.  He  then proceeded  to rip  the
pictures into tiny bits,  watching them sail off in the  wind across the parking
lot.

“Rathbone, I'm not a man to waste time with fools like you.

This is your only warning. Get off my fucking back!”

Then more calmly and succinctly, he stated,  “I want all the negatives and all
the  copies you  have  of those  photographs, along  with  anything else  you've
gathered. I also want the name of the person responsible for collecting them. If
I  don't get  them, your  beautiful daughter  might step  off the  curb into  an
oncoming car,  or something equally  dramatic.” A contemptuous grin  curved at
the corners  of his mouth  when he saw  Rathbone's expression. It  reflected the
bitter taste of bile and fear.





Joshua's heart  stopped beating in  his chest for  what seemed like  minutes. He
never  considered the  possibility Rochelle  might be  in any  immediate danger,
having instead,  taken Tobias's recent  threat against  himself as the  area for
concern. Now, however,  the son of a bitch  had struck home to the  core. He had
threatened Rochelle,  and it was all  that was necessary to  defeat Joshua. This
meeting became a finale to any further attempts of retribution against Chandler.

Tobias knew  he had won the  battle. He could  smell Joshua's fear. The  man was
weaker than he first  thought, stronger than hell as a  criminal attorney, but a
piece of shit when threat hung over him.

“Here's what you're going to do, Rathbone,” Tobias commanded.

“You're going to give  me all the pictures and the negatives.  I also want the
name of your private dick.”

The next day, Joshua met Tobias in the same parking lot. He brought the pictures
and negatives taken from  his safe deposit box, and turned  them over to Tobias,
along with a manila folder of documents.  Joshua refused to give him the name of
the private investigator.

In the next few  days that followed, Joshua sensed he was  being tailed. One car
in particular seemed to be close  on his bumper wherever he went. Unfortunately,
his discovery  of the  tail came  after he made  a trip  to the  investigator to
cancel the investigation and warn him of possible retaliation from Tobias.

“Be  careful,  Simmons. I  didn't  give  him your  name,  but  that offers  no
guarantee of  protection. The man  is evil  and dangerous. If  he sees you  as a
threat, well…” There was no need to finish his thought.



SEVEN DAYS LATER,  after Tobias discovered the name and  location of the private
investigator, Elton Simmons, someone found the man's body in an alley. The files
in his office were dumped and scattered  all over the floor, and any information
bearing Tobias's  name disappeared. An  autopsy on Simmons  showed he died  of a
drug overdose.

The day after  the discovery of Simmons's body, Joshua  and Angela Rathbone were
driving to their favorite restaurant for lunch and died in a freak car accident.
A  huge tractor-trailer  plowed into  the  back of  their  car at  a stop  light
literally pulverizing the car and the occupants within.

The  driver fled  the scene.  The  tractor-trailer was  untraceable because  the
license  plate was  missing,  there  was no  registered  owner,  and no  vehicle
identification number found on the rig.

Accidental death  was what  the medical  examiner wrote  on Joshua  and Angela's
death certificates.

Their deaths would mark new directions in Rochelle's life.



ROCHELLE  CAME DOWN  the  stairs rubbing  her  eyes. Her  hair  was tousled  and
disorderly. Her  usual careful  attendance to her  personal appearance  had been
totally ignored after the housekeeper awakened her from a late mid-morning sleep
with the  announcement that the police  were downstairs asking for  her. Quickly
pulling on a  long bathrobe, she trudged tiredly downstairs  trying to shake off
the fatigue. She was with Tobias until  after two in the morning, and could have
slept until noon if left undisturbed.

“What's wrong?” she asked immediately  upon seeing two policemen standing in
the foyer.  “Why are  you here?”  Then turning  toward the  housekeeper, she
asked, “Where's Mama?”

“Why  don't we  go in  the living  room so  you can  sit down,”  one of  the
officers suggested,  suddenly looking  larger than life  to Rochelle.  The first
tingly fear raced along her spine.

Without  saying more,  she turned  and  went to  the spacious  living room,  and
lowered herself to the  chair her father usually sat in. She  did not realize it
until she  stuck out  her hand  to offer the  two policemen  seats that  she was
shaking all over.  Her hand trembled badly.  She pulled it back  and clasped her
fingers together in her lap.

The housekeeper stood inconspicuously nearby.

Both policemen  sat down on the  sofa across from  her, staring at her  much too
long before they  spoke. They looked terribly ill at  ease. Finally, the shorter
of the two leaned forward and questioned,

“Miss Rathbone, are you the daughter of Joshua and Angela Rathbone?”

Rochelle sent them a sharp questioning  look. Tingly fear escalated with prickly
currents all through her, and she sat  up a little straighter. Her attention was
on alert, completely focused now.

“Yes, I am their daughter. Why do you ask?” Her voice was shaky and her lips
quivered. She felt all strength flow from her body.

Police  officers did  not  come  knocking on  one's  door  unless something  had
happened. She grabbed the chair arms with her hands and braced herself.

“Miss  Rathbone, we're  sorry  to inform  you,  but your  parents  were in  an
accident.”

She said anything,  just looked at them, waiting, thinking  they might say more,
might  explain. Finally,  the  word  accident began  to  sink  in slowly.  “An
accident, you say?”

She  pushed herself  from the  chair to  her feet,  balancing herself  by easing
behind  the chair  and grabbing  onto it  for support.  She stared  at the  men.
“Where are they? Are they all right? What  hospital are they in? I have to get
dressed and go  to them.” She started toward the  door, her knees precariously
unstable, and both police officers came to  their feet. One reached out and took
her arm.

“Miss Rathbone. They are not at the hospital. It's worse than that.”





She froze.  Her face froze. Then  like a piece  of ice cracking from  a gigantic
force, her expression  became a shattered reflection of pain.  Her knees buckled
and she collapsed.

“No…” she whispered.

One policeman shot  an arm about her waist, stopping  her downward plunge before
she collapsed entirely  upon the carpeted floor.  He eased her back  to the sofa
where she slumped as though her bones were jelly. Her eyes pooled with moisture.
Her anguish burst like a thunderstorm in loud sobs.

Grief and thoughts poured through her  mind. She thought about the warnings from
her father about Tobias, and the financial considerations he took on her behalf.
She  had  laughed  at  him.  Yet,  now  it  occurred  to  her,  her  father  had
anticipated  death when  he  made  those financial  provisions  for her.  Doubts
churned  involuntarily  like  an  incomplete puzzle  with  missing  pieces.  She
mentally fought against believing the nagging suspicion that her parents' deaths
might be more than a mere accident.

Was Tobias responsible for her parents' deaths?

One of  the policemen began  explaining about the accident,  mostly speculating.
“The tractor  trailer couldn't stop in  time. The brakes might  have gone out.
We'll know after an inspection is made.”

The explanation should have been reassuring,  even if painful, for it would seem
to  clear Tobias  of any  involvement.  However, she  could  not let  go of  the
remembered warnings her father gave her.

“What about the driver? Was he charged?” she muttered through her weeping.

“He left the scene of the accident and hasn't been found yet. But don't worry,
we'll find him.”





The  policemen prepared  to leave.  “Miss,  is there  anything we  can do  for
you?”  the tallest  one  asked while  glancing toward  the  doorway where  the
housekeeper stood.

Rochelle was too dazed  to answer, and was only vaguely aware  they spoke to the
housekeeper before they left.

Tears boiled  up and  spilled down Rochelle's  face in sheets,  until a  kind of
numbness took over. She sat staring off  in space, remembering her mom and dad's
faces, recalling  events in  their lives  as she was  growing up;  memories that
could never take their place.

They were gone, and she was alone.

The housekeeper sat with her. “Will  you eat or drink something?” she asked,
knowing Rochelle needed  to keep up her  energy for what lay ahead  the next few
days.

“No, I can't eat. I don't know what to do,” she cried. “What am I going to
do?” She had  not even considered calling  Tobias thus far, put  off by doubts
resting in her mind like a bad seed.

“I need to call Uncle Bentley.” Blowing her nose, and then sniffing audibly,
she dialed Bentley's  number, held the phone  to her ear as  more tears strained
through her lashes. “Uncle Bentley,” she said and broke into sobs.

“Rochelle, is that you?”

“Uncle Bentley, it's me.  There has been an accident. Mama and  Dad were in an
accident.”

“Are they all right?” he asked, his voice anxious.

“They… they didn't make it.”

“Blessed saints! Rochelle, I will be there  in a little while. Just be strong,
honey. I'll be there in a few minutes.”

When she hung  up the phone, it dawned  upon her how much she  needed someone to
hold her, comfort her,  and she thought of Tobias. Perhaps  she should call him.
On second  thought, she  decided it  best to wait  until her  Godfather, Bentley
Harrison, was not with  her. Some inner voice told her  to keep her relationship
to Bentley a secret from Tobias. She would call him later. Right now, she needed
her Uncle Bentley to help her handle things and get her through the days ahead.

It  would  be  days later,  before  Rochelle  learned  about  the absence  of  a
registration  or  vehicle  identification  number on  the  tractor-trailer.  The
implication, of course,  was an untraceable owner through  vehicular records. It
would  prompt  some real  soul-searching.  She  would mentally  explore  several
considerations,  looking for  plausible  excuses to  confirm Tobias's  innocence
rather than any involvement in her parents' deaths. Still, a niggling doubt kept
touching her thoughts like random little electrical currents.



MUCH LATER THAT NIGHT, Tobias called Rochelle.  She was supposed to have met him
at seven o'clock that evening. When the  phone rang and she looked at the clock,
it was nine o'clock.

“Rochelle, are  you all right?”  It was the first  thing that came  from his
mouth. His  question hit Rochelle  like a telltale  clue. How could  he possibly
have  learned already  what had  happened to  her parents?  His question  seemed
terribly suspicious. She wanted to ask him  why she should not be all right just
to see  what he would say,  but she didn't.  Yet, the question was  not Tobias's
customary  greeting when  she  was late  for  an outing  with  him. On  previous
occasions when she  was late, he exuded anger, often  becoming verbally abusive.
There was none of that anger or abuse now.

She knew she  had to get hold  of herself. She was reading  something, the worst
perhaps, into everything  Tobias said or did  not say. With enough  to deal with
already, she decided she need not borrow trouble.

Tearfully, she told Tobias about her parents' deaths.

“I'm sorry  to hear  that,” he said  in a monotone,  not bothering  to offer
further condolences.

Rochelle  noticed he  wasn't surprised.  Still,  the police  did say  it was  an
accident, and every nerve  inside her wanted it to be so.  She loved Tobias, but
how could  she continue loving him  if she suspected  him of taking part  in her
parents' deaths?



TOBIAS STAYED AT ROCHELLE'S SIDE through the funeral.

He poured on compassion and understanding in  huge doses. No one was more caring
than he  was, anticipating her  needs and looking after  her as though  she were
helpless. She felt nurtured beneath his  supportive care, and the seeds of doubt
that initially seized her soon faded. She grew completely dependent upon Tobias,
who seemed pleased at her reliance upon him.

Bentley kept  a low profile  in the  background throughout the  funeral service.
Joshua had made a  point of informing him of the  situation between Rochelle and
Tobias  Chandler, and  for all  practical  purposes, even  without evidence,  he
believed the man was probably responsible  for Joshua and Angela's deaths. Since
Bentley was  the trustee of the  Rathbone estate, he  played the role of  an old
friend  come  to  pay  his  respects.  He wanted  no  introduction  to,  or  any
association with Tobias Chandler.

Five days after  the funerals, using Rochelle's grief over  her parents' deaths,
Tobias talked her into and early marriage.  They were married quietly in a civil
ceremony that would require no waiting.

The marriage  presented a dramatic  turning point  in Rochelle's life.  With her
parents gone, she  told Bentley to liquidate her father's  estate and invest the
proceeds. Taking what personal items she wanted to keep, she moved into Tobias's
mansion.





Chapter Four


Five Years Later


Rochelle and Tobias sat on opposite sides of the car seat as the limousine eased
up the drive and  came to a stop at the front door  of his stately home. Neither
had spoken a word since leaving the  nightclub, and a tension filled the silence
between them.

Rochelle was  moody, feeling  disillusioned and disgusted  with the  two couples
Tobias wined and dined all evening. One of the men smoked big cigars whose scent
clung to  her clothing and nostrils;  the other one cursed  continuously and was
unable to say a single sentence without using the four-letter word she detested.
The women, while polite enough at the  beginning of the evening, drank like fish
and were stumbling drunk before the  night ended. Without realizing it, Rochelle
turned  up her  nose and  rolled her  eyes several  times at  such objectionable
manners  and crude  behaviors,  never  considering that  Tobias  would find  her
haughty manner more inappropriate than that of his crass friends.

She should have  known better. Hadn't she already suffered  Tobias's cruelty and
abuse in a hundred different ways? She had become nearly passive around him, not
wanting to invite his disfavor. Now, unwittingly, she had done just that.

No sooner  were they inside  the door at  home, than Tobias  confronted Rochelle
where they stood on the spacious marble foyer.

“Baby, do you find my friends  distasteful?” Tobias asked, standing at arm's
length and running his hands lightly up  and down Rochelle's upper arms while he
studied her with lascivious intent.

His steel  gray eyes  raked her from  head to toe  and back  again, possessively
assessing her as one  might a piece of property. His  voice sounded calm, giving
no apparent  indication of underlying hostility.  A half grin squeezed  from one
corner of his lips.





Rochelle should have known not to trust his offhanded manner.

He had  done the  same thing  numerous times  previously, inviting  her negative
responses, and then abusively retaliating. His mien was all a ploy to deceive, a
snake curling in readiness to strike.

The light  touch of Tobias's  hands on her arms  held no hint  of confrontation,
giving her the impression she could speak freely. “I find your friends lacking
in intelligence and social tact,” she  replied honestly, her long slender neck
and raised chin displaying a haughty grace.

Tobias's forehead wrinkled  and his eyes darkened. He  touched Rochelle's cheek,
sliding his fingers down  to her silky white throat where  he caressed the white
skin above the little blue veins.

“Lacking in intelligence…” A smile toyed  with his lips, and then he threw
back his head and roared with laughter. The sound made Rochelle's stomach lurch.

Rochelle looked at him sharply, never  suspecting that behind his attitude lay a
deadly anger he had nursed all evening against her.

She  was slow  to  learn that  Tobias  worked at  keeping  his emotions  hidden,
believing he mastered more control over  others when he exhibited icy control of
self.

“Hummm… You  know, baby, you may  be right,” he said,  still laughing. The
glint in his eyes changed first, turning to cold steel as his laughter spun down
to an acrid  snort. “They may be sons  of bitches for all I care,  but when we
invite anyone out for dinner, I expect  you to act like the perfect hostess. You
represent me, baby, not those frivolous opinions you have.”

“Tobias, how  can you expect me  to associate with such  disgusting people?”
she implored.

He turned  his back on  her, taking  a deep breath.  He was seething,  the great
quantities of alcohol drunk during the  evening fueling instant rage that echoed
in the  timbre of his voice.  He spun about  to face her. “You  associate with
them because I damn  well say so! Do you think you're better  than they are, you
stupid little bitch?”

His crude manner was not a shock, but his blunt sarcasm stung.

Lately, his  attitude toward Rochelle  had worsened  daily until he  showed pure
contempt for  her most  of the  time. Drinking  merely intensified  his venomous
nature.

Alcohol was an addiction with Tobias; he drank Bloody Marys in the morning, beer
in  the afternoon,  finishing  the day  with wine,  champagne  or scotch,  often
topping his  evening with brandy.  He needed  only the mildest  provocation from
Rochelle to  turn abusive  with verbal put-downs  complemented by  violent slaps
across her face. He once locked her in their room for two days without food, and
the list of abuses started increasing  every time Tobias found a reason, whether
real  or imagined.  She  usually stepped  lightly around  him  to avoid  another
abusive attack on her,  but tonight she had been so incensed  she could not hold
her tongue.

Tobias had never been what Rochelle called adorable, but at least he treated her
respectfully in the beginning. Now, his contempt replaced any decent feelings he
once had for  her. She was sure his  heavy drinking was due in  part to problems
with  his  organization,  and  he  found  sadistic  relief  through  taking  his
frustrations out on  her. He stayed angry at  the world, and he used  her as his
scapegoat.

Rochelle  feared he  might be  losing his  mind from  the excess  of alcohol  he
consumed.

“Tobias, you  know I usually  don't complain, but  the men's vulgar  jokes and
boorish manners are  not suitable for mixed company,” she  said softly. “Are
the women supposed  to sit there pretending  to enjoy the men's  crude jokes and
remarks  and their  intimate gropes  in  public? If  you respect  me, you  would
caution them against their vulgarity when I'm present.”





With saliva oozing from the corners  of his mouth, Tobias sneered contemptuously
at Rochelle's remark. His hand touched her throat, his fingers gliding about the
porcelain  skin, following  the  stream  of little  blue  veins  that seemed  to
intrigue him.  His hand  and fingers  spread out  all at  once around  her neck,
grasping it so tightly her face turned crimson and her breath grew ragged.

“How did  you get so goddamned  stupid? If I  respected you, I might  not even
want you in the company of those crazy bastards.

However, the truth is,  darling; the only thing I respect about  you is what you
have between your legs.  Haven't you learned yet what role you  play in my life,
Rochelle?” His fingers tightened on her throat.

She grabbed his hand, attempting to loosen his strangling hold.

“Tobias, please stop. You're hurting my neck!” She gasped for air.

“Shut your damned mouth! I'm tired of your constant bitching, and it's getting
worse every time we go out.” Spittle flew from his mouth and sprayed her face.

Uncontrolled words  poured from her  throat despite the  fact they served  as an
invitation to Tobias's  abuse. “Then don't make  me go out any  more with that
bunch you associate with.  I'd rather stay home and read a  good book than spend
my time trying to be nice to a bunch of low-life scum.”

He released her neck, drew back his  hand, and slapped her forcefully across her
cheek.

Rochelle reeled and grabbed the stair post to keep from falling.

Charged with adrenaline and sudden fear, she started up the stairs.

Intent upon  getting away  from Tobias,  she feared the  likelihood of  a severe
battering. Uppermost in her mind was also the fear that one day Tobias's drunken
rages would unglue his control so badly that he would kill her.

Tobias grabbed Rochelle,  knocking her off-balance. He jerked her  back down the
steps.





“Bitch, don't you dare  turn your back on me when I'm talking  to you. I'm not
through with you,”  he snarled, sending another spray of  spittle from twisted
lips.

“Tobias, please just let me go  upstairs,” she pleaded. Her lips quivered as
if she might be freezing.

He grabbed the  front of her beautiful  white gown. Jerking her  toward him, the
fabric ripped, baring one of her breast.  He cupped her breast with his hand and
squeezed.  “Nice,”  he  slurred  through a  sickening  smile.  “Daddy  has
something for you, baby.”

She cringed away from him, desperately frightened by his manner, suspecting what
he planned to  do to her as  punishment for confronting him. It  wouldn't be the
first time.

“Please, Tobias, let's just go upstairs.”

“What's wrong with right here?” he said, roughly massaging her breast.

“You know why—the security cameras. Please,  Tobias, you know the guards are
watching on the monitors. Please don't do this.”

She reached up and pushed his hand  from her bosom, embarrassed to death knowing
their horrible  scene and her exposed  naked breast was on  the monitor screens.
She tried to pull the fabric up to  cover her breast, turning in the same motion
to go upstairs.

“I said don't ever  turn your fucking back on me  again!” he ordered through
gritted teeth, snatching her around to face him.

Rochelle recoiled in alarm, every nerve prickling with terror.

“Please, Tobias. Please don't do this. I beg you.”

“What's  wrong, baby,  I  thought  you enjoyed  being  on center-stage,”  he
taunted. “A  fine lady  like you would  look good on  the monitor  screen. Why
don't we give the guards a nice performance?”

His  hand was  hurting her  wrist, and  she  tried to  twist free,  but he  only
squeezed tighter, his nauseous alcohol breath puffing in her face.





“No, Tobias, please. Stop it. Stop it!”  she screamed, and for just a second
he loosened his  hold on her wrist long  enough for her to twist  from his grasp
and shove him  away from her. She turned  to run, hoping to get  to the bathroom
and lock herself  inside, as she had  done on other occasions when  he was drunk
and abusive.

Rochelle only made it a couple of  steps before he grabbed her hair and snatched
her back, spinning her  about to face him. It felt like her  scalp was torn away
bringing instant excruciating  pain. He drew back his hand  and slapped her. She
went flying backwards against the stair  steps, the sharp edges cutting into her
backside.

He reached  down where she lay  crumpled like a  rag doll and grabbed  her hand,
jerking her to a  standing position. With a sneer on his  face, he roughly found
her lips,  ravaging her with  his teeth, tongue, and  mouth until her  lips were
swollen and salty with the taste of blood.

She struggled,  trying to  get away from  him, but her  slender strength  was no
match against his hundred and seventy pounds.

When he  tasted the blood from  her teeth-torn lips,  he turned to one  side and
spit, and  then reached  out and  put his  fingers in  the cleavage  between her
breasts. Tightening his grasp on the fabric  of her expensive gown, he jerked it
downward, ripping the  seams of the fine silk, snatching  and jerking the fabric
until it tore in shreds from her body.

Rochelle stood  there in  shock, trying  desperately to  cover herself  with her
hands and arms.  Fear paralyzed her and  she watched as though  this horror were
happening to someone else as Tobias pulled her to the hard marble floor and tore
off her panties. When  she was naked, her dignity destroyed,  she was aware that
Tobias's mental  and physical  abuse had  reached another  level. Raping  her in
front of security cameras monitored by guards was the ultimate victimization. It
would establish his complete control over her life.





With her expensive  clothing tattered about her feet, her  naked, trembling body
chilled by  the cold  marble floor, she  was at Tobias's  mercy. In  a punishing
assault, he brutally raped  her, the pain of the hard  floor against her slender
form. His rough treatment drew hysterical screams from her throat.

When he  finished, he rose  to his feet,  staring down at her  as if she  were a
piece of trash  left by the vacuum  cleaner. Standing over her,  he reached down
toward his crotch and zipped his pants.  “Do let that be a lesson, darling, to
never cross me again.”

Knowing the  guards were  likely having  a field  day at  the monitors,  and her
modesty compromised  beyond repair, she  grabbed her tattered clothing  to cover
herself. Struggling to a sitting position,  every bone in her body screamed with
pain from Tobias's abuse.

Still standing above her with a frozen sneer, he kicked her thigh with the point
of his shoe for emphasis, and she cried out in pain.

Humiliation burned  her face while  her stomach  churned sickly with  nausea and
resentment.  She hated  him.  Whatever she  once felt  for  Tobias Chandler  was
tainted  and  destroyed;  her  pride,  dignity,  and  self-respect  violated  so
ruthlessly she would never forgive him.

Knowing the guards  observed her nakedness and  his rape of her  on the monitors
made her cringe and shiver with shame.  Her hate of Tobias was the only strength
he couldn't take from her.

“From now on, your only job in life is to make me happy,”

Tobias stated arrogantly. He sent her a contemptuous glance then turned and went
upstairs.

Left stiff  and bruised  on the  cold, hard marble  floor, three  guards hovered
around  the security  monitors afraid  to  blink lest  they miss  even a  single
glimpse of the best  performance ever seen on television or  in the movies. They
were disappointed when it was over.

Struggling to  get to her feet,  and covering as much  of her body as  she could
with her scrapped gown, Rochelle knew her  life with Tobias would be nothing but
hell from now on.

The next morning, as was Tobias's habit,  he hugged her, kissed her, wrapped her
in his arms, and  apologized. He promised he would never do  such a thing again.
Rochelle knew  it was  a lie. By  nightfall, after he  had deluged  himself with
alcohol all day, he would be in the same frame of mind as last night.

Following his attack, she nursed a black  eye and numerous body bruises for more
than a week. The incident taught her the art of pretentiousness. She put on airs
that would have made her a star in  the movies, an act merely to prevent further
harm from Tobias. He was pleased with  her new attitude. He continued making sly
little remarks to keep her aware that if she displeased him, she would pay.

If Tobias could have known how much she hated him, he would have killed her.



ONE GOOD  THING OCCURRED from  Tobias's sexual and  physical abuse the  night he
assaulted her on the cold marble floor.

The frequency of  the dinner parties declined following that  night, and if they
received invitations, Tobias mostly went without her.

Only occasionally did  he demand that she  go with him. Careful not  to draw his
ire, she offered no resistance to what he requested or expected of her. Survival
was her only goal now, and she did anything he asked without argument.

The times she  did not accompany him,  she spent her evenings  alone, reading or
watching  television,  sometimes  just  listening  to music  from  the  huge  CD
selection she collected  over the years. She  was lonely, but she  found her own
company far more gratifying than she did with Tobias and his friends. Enjoying a
reprieve of sorts, she basked in her newly found peace.

Then it all changed in a heartbeat.





Tobias went  out one night, dressed  in his suit, and  a silk shirt as  white as
snow. When he came home, dark makeup and bright red lipstick stained his collar.
His smeared lips reminded Rochelle of a  baboon's ass. He took off his coat, tie
and shirt, and  then stepped out of  his pants, letting them fall  to the floor.
Dropping onto  the bed  drunkenly, and  smelling like the  stale scent  of cheap
perfume mixed  with the  muskiness of  recent sex,  he reached  to turn  off the
light.

Rochelle  was enraged  at  Tobias  for flaunting  his  infidelity so  blatantly.
Popping up from  her pillow to a sitting position,  she spoke acidly, “Tobias,
if  you plan  to see  other women,  then you  won't mind  if I  move to  another
bedroom.”

He turned out the light and lay down. “You'll fucking well leave my bed when I
say so, and not until. So, shut the hell  up so I can go to sleep,” he mumbled
with a yawn and turned his back to her.

“Better still,”  Rochelle continued, “just  give me  a divorce and  let me
leave here.” It was the first time  she had ever mentioned the word divorce to
him.

That got his  attention, and he bolted up  to a sitting position on  the edge of
the bed and flicked  the light back on. Instant rage consumed  him. He was quiet
several seconds,  and then he  turned enough  to reach out  and grab her  by her
hair. He jerked her across the bed and jabbed a fist into her jaw.

“You stupid  bitch, you  just can't  leave well enough  alone, can  you?” He
gritted his teeth, speaking in a soft tone that hissed with venom. “Don't ever
mention divorce  to me  again, Rochelle. If  you should ever  get the  notion of
trying to run away from me, I will kill your ass. Mark my work.”

Pain shot through her  head where he snatched her across the bed  by her hair. A
handful of unattached  hair twined between his  fingers, and he shook  it to the
floor. Despite  her pain, and  too incensed to  let well enough  alone, Rochelle
spoke her mind. “You  expect me to sleep with you after  you've just come from
another woman?”  she screamed.  “God, I  would puke if  you ever  touched me
again.”

Tobias made a  scoffing sound and leered  at her. His wife wasn't  a very bright
student or  she would  learn to keep  her fucking mouth  shut. Grabbing  her, he
crushed his  red lips  to hers, hard  and bruising, his  teeth cutting  into the
tender flesh and drawing blood.

“Stop  it,  Tobias!”  she  demanded,   not  realizing  her  outburst  merely
encouraged him. She  struggled with him, crying  out at his abuse.  Her head now
hurt  dreadfully. Before  he finished,  atrociously abusing  her physically  and
sexually, she was begging him to stop.

What he did to her was the most sickening thing he had ever done.

Hell had just come knocking.

Befouling her skin with the touch of his flaccid organ, knowing he had just come
from another woman made her want to puke. She swallowed it back to avoid harsher
abuse. In  the meantime, he ripped  off her gown  like a lunatic, tearing  it to
shreds.  Looking  at  her  nakedness  made him  passionate,  and  Rochelle  knew
something was terribly sick about that look. His verbal expression just before a
climax, “Baby,  baby, give it  to daddy,” was  a telltale clue  denoting his
sexual fantasy.

He  touched her  between her  legs,  discovering she  was as  dry as  sandpaper.
“You're a  cold bitch,” he told  her. “About the coldest  I've ever known.
Where did I get the idea in the beginning you were warm and passionate?”

The dangerous tone of his voice deepened Rochelle's tenseness.

She knew better  than test his wrath further. Tobias's  evil streak would devise
whatever inhumanity he could to teach her  a lesson in obedience. With her scalp
swollen,  and  her  head  pounding  like hammers,  she  tried  to  mollify  him.
“Tobias, I'm sorry. I don't mean to displease you,” she said humbly.





It amazed her how she could sound so  sweet, while rage boiled inside her like a
steaming kettle. She wanted  to yell that she hated him,  wanted to scream every
invective she could  recall. She wanted to  find the nerve to take  his gun from
the nightstand drawer and blow his brains out. God, she could just see it in her
mind, him lying sprawled  on the bed with his brains seeping  out of the gunshot
hole—and just the thought made her feel relief.

Her  apology  humbled  him,  at  least  temporarily.  He  seemed  a  mixture  of
contradictions as he expressed a contemplative mood.

“Just tell me one thing—why in the hell can't I please you, baby?”

“You do  please me, Tobias.  You do,” she cried,  wanting to placate  him to
prevent further abuse.

How could the SOB expect anything  less than icicle-participation when he abused
her so  hideously, not  to mention  him expecting her  to reciprocate  while the
stink of another woman rose from his body?

“Like hell, you  say. When have I  ever pleased you? You don't  even know what
I'm talking about, do you?” he demanded in disgust, slapping her backside with
a stinging blow.

With his hands and  eyes sliding over her breasts, he talked  as though he spoke
only to himself. “I've been as tender with you as a man can be, thinking you'd
respond, but you're too damned cold to even  know how to enjoy sex. I have given
you more foreplay than  any woman who's ever warmed my  bed, and nothing excites
you.”

“I don't do it purposely, Tobias. Truly  I don't.” He was working himself up
to his sick  inhumanity. He wanted to hurt  her, and he would. She  knew what he
planned, and her  stomach roiled with revulsion. Bitter bile  rose in her throat
and she swallowed  it back down, the  red lipstick from his kiss  leaving a sick
sweet taste in her mouth along with other despicable tastes.





He forced his  ultimate punishment upon her, leaving her  choking and struggling
to get air into her lungs. Then  when she feared she might die of strangulation,
he must have noticed her plight, and ceased the oral penetration.

He flung  his full body weight  down upon her.  Pinning her down, he  spread her
legs and  rammed his huge manhood  inside her dry canal.  Rochelle screamed with
pain, crying and praying  it would soon be over. The pain in  her head seemed to
worsen continuously.

Like a  man driven by  perversity, he  thrust in and  out like a  stevedore, and
Rochelle bit her lips to hold back further screams.

She felt moisture  and knew his roughness had ripped  delicate tissue inside her
to cause bleeding. It was horrible.  He was horrible, a monster who sadistically
and purposely hurt her.

When  he  finished  pounding  her  unmercifully,  leaving  her  insides  feeling
disconnected and like raw flesh, he rolled off onto his back, his legs outspread
and his limp bloody penis peeking  dismally from his undershorts. He was snoring
in minutes.

She went to the bathroom, threw up the contents of her stomach, and scrubbed her
body and the inside of her mouth until that, too, was raw.





Chapter Five


Morning came with clouds gathering outside for a possible thunderstorm. Rochelle
was thankful that Tobias was gone when  she opened her eyes to excruciating pain
caused by him  snatching and ripping a  handful of hair from her  scalp. She lay
upon her bed nursing her bruised body  and aching head while old memories of her
parents flooded her  thoughts. A sickening feeling crawled  through her stomach.
Few doubts  remained in her mind  that Tobias was responsible  for their deaths.
She considered the possibility that he might  have some accident in mind for her
when he tired of his sadistic abuse of her.

Living with him had become life threatening and hell on earth.

Mrs. Rodriguez, the housekeeper, appointed  herself as Rochelle's caretaker. She
checked on  Rochelle that morning when  she didn't come down  for breakfast. The
middle-aged woman harbored a certain fondness for the young Mrs. Chandler, going
out of  her way  to befriend  her bosses'  wife. It  was no  secret to  her that
Rochelle was an abused wife after seeing  blood on the sheets too many times not
to question  the impropriety of  Tobias Chandler's  use of his  spouse. However,
this was the  first time he'd inflicted  serious damage to her  person, the knot
spreading on her scalp the size of  a cap. Feeling great pity for Rochelle, Mrs.
Rodriguez checked  on her often,  brought her food,  juices, coffee or  tea, and
hovered over her like a friendly parent.

“Not feeling any  better?” she inquired sympathetically,  her strong Spanish
accent nearly making her English incomprehensible.

Rochelle shook her head, wincing with pain at the movement.

She reached  for the  aspirin on  her nightstand,  popping the  lid to  pour two
tablets on  her palm.  Tossing them into  her mouth, she  swallowed them  with a
drink of water from  the partly filled glass on her  nightstand. Laying her head
back  against the  pillow, she  was unable  to find  relief. Her  head ached  so
fiercely it had kept her awake all night.

“You should leave him,” Mrs.  Rodriguez whispered, glancing furtively toward
the door,  seeming to understand  only mildly, how dangerous  it was for  her to
speak of any situation occurring in the  Chandler home. She usually kept a tight
lip, but seeing what Mr.

Chandler had done to the nice, young Mrs. Chandler was unpardonable.

Rochelle  glanced at  Mrs.  Rodriguez,  the woman's  remark  reflective of  what
Rochelle had  thought of  all night  long. She wanted  to leave  Tobias, desired
escape from him more than anything. His  threat to kill her kept drumming in her
ears, and she clearly realized that  whatever she did, staying or leaving, would
involve putting her life at great risk.

Tobias stopped by Rochelle's room before  dinner. She was dozing when his weight
sagged heavily  against the  mattress, the  movement causing  her eyes  to flick
open. “How are you feeling, baby?”  he asked with what sounded like concern,
the only reason being that he wasn't drunk yet.

“I'm not well, Tobias. The pain is unbearable. I need a doctor,”

she moaned, knowing  he would not let her  go see a doctor. It  would invite too
many questions.

He ran his hand across her forehead,  brushed the auburn-gold hair back from her
face, and  watched her wince  at his touch to  her swollen scalp.  “I'm sorry,
baby. You will feel better in a couple of days. If not, I will see about getting
you some pain medication.

Aren't the aspirin helping at all?”  he inquired, seeing the aspirin bottle on
her nightstand.

“No, not much,” she said raggedly.

“I'll check on you later,” he said, leaving the bed.

Rochelle watched his arrogant stroll across the room. The authoritative features
of his nose,  chin, and forehead were  in profile and his  previously sleek body
was beginning  to show a midriff  bulge. His very presence  wrought hate through
her system like a festering sore erupting with poison.

She turned her back  on him to hide the bitterness assailing her  as he went out
the door.  She thought about  all the  guns she had  seen numerous times  in his
study, in the  gun case, the one in  the nightstand on his side of  the bed, and
wished she had the  nerve to point one at him and pull  the trigger. It would be
so easy and  quick, she reasoned, experiencing a growing  desperation to be free
of the monster she married.



THE NEXT SEVERAL DAYS became stressful  reminders of Tobias's threat to kill her
if she tried to leave him. While  it played on Rochelle's mind with an intensity
that left her tired, her head ached too  much to do more than lightly reflect on
leaving. She prayed the swelling would soon  go down on her scalp.When she could
think better she would formulate plans to leave Tobias.

When Tobias  caught her dressed  to go out  the following afternoon,  he stopped
her. The driver, Johnson Coleman, the chauffer that Tobias provided for her use,
was waiting out front.

“She won't  need you  for the  rest of the  week, Johnson,”  Tobias asserted
authoritatively.

Johnson nodded and drove the car back into the garage.

“I  have  to  see  a   doctor,”  Rochelle  implored,  mere  speech  wreaking
excruciating pain and sending a grimace weaving  across her face. It was all she
could do to stay on her feet, dizziness nearly overcoming her.

“There'll be  no doctor. Go  to your room  and rest. You'll  be okay in  a few
days.” His look told her he would tolerate no rebuttals.

Knowing better than to argue, Rochelle  turned about on unsteady feet and headed
back into the house for the bedroom.

Embittered by Tobias's firm control over her life, her desire to escape from him
began growing into an obsession.

The week stretched endlessly before  Rochelle. Every day filled with unrelenting
pain from her  swollen scalp. Confined to  the house, and not  feeling much like
reading or watching television, time pressed upon her in boring pursuit. It gave
her time to think, and time to  start brainstorming possible plans of escape. It
had to be a good plan so carefully thought out there would be no opportunity for
failure. With Tobias's threat  to kill her if she tried to  run away, one chance
might be all she would have.

The week  passed without  further incident.  Tobias slept  nightly next  to her,
never touching her.  During the day, he  looked in on her  frequently to inquire
how she  was doing. “I'm  glad to see you  feeling better, baby,”  he stated
encouragingly each time he appeared, barely coming past the threshold. His overt
concern resembled a predator's stealthy actions to entice his prey.

Rochelle knew  he did not  care whether  she felt better  or not. He  was simply
afraid  she  might  die  and  the authorities  would  charge  him  with  murder.
Aggravated by  his presence, she treated  him with silence. She  was to remember
frequently how her parents had tried to open  her eyes to the kind of man Tobias
was. She could almost picture them saying, “we told you so.”



THREE WEEKS  PASSED BEFORE Rochelle's scalp  healed. The swelling went  down and
she could brush  her hair now with only slight  sensitivity. Three weeks, enough
time to lie in bed and make plans  for the most important and daring scheme ever
attempted in her life.  Believing Tobias would act on his threat  to kill her if
he caught  her running  away could not  deter her belief  that freedom  was well
worth the risk.

Ultimately, however,  it could  very well be  the last thing  she ever  did, she
surmised.

Many times,  Rochelle opened the  drawer in the nightstand  to look at  the gun.
Apprehension shivered across every nerve ending, causing her to close the drawer
quickly. After  repeating this action many  times, she finally reached  down and
laid her hand on the gun.

It was  cold to her touch.  Wrapping her fingers  about the gun, she  lifted it,
turning it  in her hands,  paralyzing fear gripping her  at the very  thought of
what she considered. The cold metal of  the gun kept reminding her how deadly it
was, and her heart pounded fiercely  with apprehension. Pushing both arms out in
front of  her, she took aim,  envisioning Tobias's face before  her and thinking
how quick and easy it would be to do the deed.

Just a little squeeze of the trigger and it would be over. She would be free.

But would she?

The police would come and carry her away and she would still be a prisoner.

A cold sweat broke out on her forehead  and her hands trembled at the thought of
sending a bullet  into Tobias's brain. Her  knees weakened until she  had to sit
down, dropping on the edge of the bed.

The  thought  of  shooting  Tobias  frightened  her  considerably.  With  rising
hysteria, she shoved the gun back into the drawer and slammed it shut.

She could not do it. She would never be able to pull that trigger.

To knowingly attempt to snuff out  another's life was against everything she had
ever been taught. It would make her no better than Tobias.

She could not do it.

Her only choice was to leave him.

Leaving was not something she could  do overnight. It would take time, planning,
and strategy. Since she was not allowed to go anywhere without Johnson, who gave
Tobias a report  of every outing, she  would have to plan  carefully every move.
Drawing money from  the bank account her  father left her would be  first on her
list of things  to do. Then she would  stash it in the safety  deposit box until
she was ready to  make her get-away. That seemed like the  most likely plan, the
best one that came  to mind. She decided to act on it,  and planned an outing on
the following day.

“Where are we  off to today, Mrs. Chandler?” Johnson  asked respectfully, it
the first time in more than three weeks since she had requested his service.

“To  my favorite  shop,  The Boutique,”  she replied  in  her quiet  manner,
climbing into the back  of the vehicle while Johnson held the  door for her. She
could not help  but wonder if he  had been watching the monitor  that night when
Tobias raped her. Her face reddened at  the thought and she found herself unable
to meet his gaze.

Johnson  sometimes talked  to Rochelle  on her  frequent shopping  trips. Today,
however, he was silent, and Rochelle was glad. She needed to concentrate on what
she was  doing. Her palms  were sweating, and she  kept telling herself  to stay
calm despite that  deep fear in the pit  of her stomach at what  would happen if
Tobias were to  learn of her plan.  She was surely treading disaster,  but if it
all worked well, she  was certain the outcome of regaining  her freedom would be
worth the risk.

Still, she could  barely suppress the fear of thinking  of Tobias's retribution.
She could imagine all sorts of things far worse than death that he might do, and
had every reason to believe her husband would be merciless.

Johnson pulled into a tiny parking lot next to The Boutique, and parked the car.
“Are you planning on being long, Mrs. Chandler?”

“It depends,”  she said noncommittally.  “You know me, Johnson.  Some days
nothing appeals  to me, then  others, well… you know  how it is.”  She spoke
much  the very  same words  to  him on  every  outing, but  today, they  sounded
insincere to her  own ears. She could  feel sweat popping out all  over her, her
fear mechanism in high gear. Thus far, she had done nothing any different from a
thousand times  before, but the contrived  deceit, planned out in  her own mind,
brought nervous guilt stimulating every nerve ending.

Despite the  fear quaking through  her, she managed  to sound calm,  and Johnson
seemed satisfied with  her answer. He grabbed  a magazine from the  seat next to
him, pushed the seat  as far back as it would go,  then made himself comfortable
for a  long wait.  He knew  Rochelle lingered over  fittings sometimes  that had
taken  up to  three  hours on  one  occasion,  so he  was  always prepared  with
something to  read when he  took her to  that particular shop.  Occasionally, he
might run to a nearby gas station for  a bathroom break or a soda; otherwise, he
sat and waited, occasionally cranking the car to run the air conditioner.

“You take your time, Mrs. Chandler,” he said, repressing a yawn and covering
his mouth with his palm.

To keep  Johnson from  knowing about  and reporting  her visits  to the  bank to
Tobias, she devised a  plan to delude him. She would enter  The Boutique, go out
the back door and  down an alley, and then cut back out  onto the sidewalk where
she would hail a cab to take her to the bank.

Today,  both clerks  were busy  and the  proprietress was  nowhere in  sight, so
Rochelle entered  the store  and kept walking  right on out  the back  door. The
clerks did not even see her, and  Johnson had no reason to suspect this shopping
trip was any different  from all the others. She had no  trouble flagging a cab,
and she was at her destination in minutes.

In the bank, she inspected the safety deposit box her father rented in her name.
Strange,  she thought,  that  she had  never bothered  checking  it before.  She
supposed there had not  been a reason since Tobias was  generous with his money.
Now, when she opened the large safety deposit box, it was stuffed full of money,
and  upon  first glance,  looked  like  many  thousands  of dollars  in  various
denominations. There was also a fat envelope of documents.

She turned it  in her hands, deciding  to investigate it another  time since she
felt the need to rush.

Needing more  space for her  other purposes,  she rented another  safety deposit
box. After  learning the balance  of the savings  account, she was  duly shocked
that the  amount rivaled anything beyond  her expectations. She was  certain her
father never would  have put that much  money in a low  interest savings account
unless he had good  reason to believe something might happen to  him. A sense of
guilt surged  swift and strong  as she blamed herself  for not listening  to her
parents. They  likely would  still be alive  today if she  had only  listened to
them.  She  shook off  the  bitterness  and guilt  for  the  moment, needing  to
concentrate on her plan.

Rochelle knew  she would create  attention if she  tried to withdraw  the entire
amount  at  once,  so  she  did  some  mental  calculations,  deciding  to  make
intermittent withdrawals  over several  weeks. She  withdrew the  first advance,
placing  it in  the new  safety  deposit box  with the  withdrawal receipt,  and
suddenly thought about what her father had said. “One day, you will be glad of
my foresight.”

Daddy, you were right, she thought, and I wish to God that I could tell you that
now.

When her  business was finished,  she took the cab  back to the  alley entrance,
quickly making her  way back to The  Boutique on foot. She found  the alley door
locked, and knocked softly while she worried that no one would open the door for
her. Remy, the shop owner, opened it and raised her brows when she saw Rochelle.

“Remy, please don't mention this to anyone,” Rochelle implored quietly.

“No problem. What my customers do is their own business.”





Just to make her trip look good in  Johnson's eyes, she bought a blouse, and the
clerk boxed it  for her. Glancing at  her watch, she was satisfied  she had used
less time  than usual when she  shopped, sometimes buying nothing  after lengthy
browsing.

“Mrs.  Chandler,  you   didn't  buy  much  today,”  Johnson   said  more  in
conversation than in speculation after noticing her single package.

Rochelle's nerves  were on edge  even though she knew  Johnson had no  reason to
suspect her of  doing anything different than she had  hundreds of times before.
“I couldn't seem to find anything to suit me today, Johnson.”

“Where  to?” he  asked, knowing  she sometimes  made the  rounds to  several
shops.

“I think I'm ready to go home. I'm  not in a shopping mood,” she said with a
deep sigh  of resignation.  Feeling terribly  relieved over  having successfully
gone to the bank without detection,  she started planning her next shopping trip
when she could withdraw more money from her account.





Chapter Six


Over a period of the next several weeks, when she could get away from the estate
without  suspicion,  Rochelle  continued  converting her  savings  to  cash  and
transferring it to the safety deposit box until the account was empty.

With plenty of  time to brainstorm, design,  and refine her plan  of action, she
bought a long  blonde wig, large dark glasses, baggy  jeans and shirt, sneakers,
socks, long dangling earrings,  and a light jacket with long  sleeves. To add to
the effect,  she purchased  a portable  cassette player  with earphones  and one
tape.  Her  costume was  made  up  to resemble  the  appearance  of the  younger
generation whose style  was anything but conservative—sort  of “hippy” she
thought.  After  each purchase,  made  intermittently  over several  weeks,  she
smuggled them  into The  Boutique in  a tote  bag she  frequently used  when she
shopped. In  the bathroom,  she packaged  the items  tightly together,  and then
taped them  beneath the  sink where she  hoped they would  remain until  she was
ready to retrieve them. It was a chance she had to take.

She used Remy's phone to call the  bus station, learning the bus schedule to the
first largest  town, where she would  buy another ticket to  another large town,
hoping the  numerous changes and  stops would throw  off anyone trying  to trace
her.

Nearly two months  later, she reviewed all  she had done, going  back over every
detail to determine if her plans seemed ironclad.

Nothing appeared to be remiss. She was ready to take the big step.

Now, she only  needed to wait patiently  until Tobias made another  trip down to
Columbia. There was less chance of detection  if he were not there to initiate a
search for  her. No one would  call in the  police to report her  missing unless
Tobias gave the order himself.

She needed to make one last purchase, a  large duffel bag for the money. She had
to go out the back door of The Boutique  one more time and take a cab. Since the
duffle bag was too large to hide, she took her other items from beneath the sink
and put them in the bag.

She entrusted it to Remy, making up a  story about not wanting to carry it about
with her and would pick it up later.

“No problem,”  Remy told her, “It'll  be here whenever you  ask for it.”
With  as  much  money  as  Rochelle  spent in  her  shop,  Remy  could  be  very
accommodating.

Another month passed before Tobias informed her he was flying down to Colombia.





“Why don't  you come  with me?”  he asked, and  her heart  jumped up  in her
throat.

“I  don't think  so,”  she replied  calmly even  though  her pulse  throbbed
erratically. “I haven't felt well lately. I'd rather not.”

Tobias eyed her suspiciously, his eyes examining her closely.

Rochelle knew if  he were of a mind  to insist on her coming, she  would have no
choice in the  matter. Her nerves were raw-edged as  she waited breathlessly for
him to ruin all her carefully laid plans.

“Suit your  self,” he remarked coldly,  hardly caring one way  or the other.
“I'll be gone a week.”

A breath of relief escaped through her trembling lips and she fought to suppress
her quickening excitement.  Adrenaline tingled through her torso  and limbs, but
she  checked it,  not wanting  to give  Tobias reason  to suspect  anything. She
greeted his news with apathy as she usually did, accepted his goodbye kiss early
the next morning.

Her heart pounded furiously with elation.

It was time.

Her moment had finally arrived to put Tobias from her life.

A certain amount of excitement suffused in  her blood stream, but beneath it was
another, more pronounced emotion, pure terror.

She was  scared to death.  Even with Tobias a  continent away, his  presence was
still  as invasive  as  if he  stood  beside her.  She  could feel  perspiration
breaking out all over  her even though the coolness of  the air conditioning was
at  a  comfortable  setting.  Butterflies  nested  in  her  stomach,  fluttering
violently at various  moments like a thousand pulsating wings.  Every tiny sound
she heard startled her, sending a  frightening jerk all through her body. Adding
to the tumultuous anxiety invading her sanity was the imagined outcome if Tobias
or the guards discovered her attempt to escape.

A million times she wished there was  someone to talk to, someone to confide in.
She knew people all  over the city, but all were friends  of Tobias. Anyway, the
women Rochelle  knew were probably like  her, afraid to trust  anyone. There was
Bentley Harrison, her  Godfather, who was her late father's  closest friend. She
trusted him beyond any other man, yet Rochelle dared not contact him by phone or
in person.  Such communication was  traceable, which could  jeopardize Bentley's
safety. She had to do this alone.

There was no other way, and it was absolutely the only way to retain secrecy.

Giving Tobias time to  arrive at his destination, she waited  until the next day
to make her get-away. The night  proved a sleepless one with intermittent dozing
blighted  by terrible  dreams  that  left her  drenched  with  sweat. The  night
stretched endlessly.  Every time she glanced  at the digital clock,  little time
had passed since the last time she  looked. When daylight began peeking over the
eastern horizon, she was exhausted.

Dragging herself from the bed, she went to the shower and stood an extended time
beneath the  soothing splintery spray. It  revived her, washed away  some of the
lethargy, and cleared her thoughts. She knew  she had to be alert, had to follow
every detail to the letter, lest Johnson get wind that something was underway.

Since it  was still much  too early to  put her plans  in motion, she  chose her
attire carefully;  a comfortable suit  and blouse,  and flat sandals,  which she
seldom wore. She knew  she should wear heels as she usually  did, but she needed
comfortable shoes  in the event she  had to move quickly.  Finally finishing her
daily  routine of  showering, putting  on  makeup, and  dressing, she  inspected
herself in the mirror before going downstairs for breakfast.

“Mrs.  Chandler, you're  up early  today,” the  cook stated  curiously. Then
seeing how tired Rochelle looked, she continued.

“Are you feeling well? You look tired.”

“I didn't  sleep well,” Rochelle  replied shortly, wanting to  avoid further
conversation. She  was certain everyone could  look right into her  mind and see
what  she planned.  The  feeling of  transparency left  her  nervous and  highly
fidgety. She spilled her coffee and the  cook wiped it up. She dropped her bread
knife when she  was buttering her toast,  and it clanked against  the plate. Her
hands shook violently,  and she had to hide  them in her lap when  the cook kept
noticing them.

She was too  nervous to be hungry,  but she ate heartily anyway  since she might
not have a chance to eat for many hours to come.

She also drank several cups of black coffee to stimulate her dulled senses.

Her hands became  clammy and she kept  wiping them on the  linen napkin, wishing
away the time. She  would leave at exactly eleven, and  once downtown, she would
dismiss Johnson, who sometimes took lunch while she shopped.

As time neared for  her to leave, she stood before her  closet, her clothing and
the toilet  articles in  the dressing room  the only signs  that she  even lived
there. It  was like a  goodbye to  the only things  she cared about  in Tobias's
home. She would carry no apparel with her except the duffle bag and its contents
at The Boutique. She  touched a few items of clothing  lovingly, hating to leave
everything behind, but  knowing it was necessary. Her clothes  had been the only
source of interest for the past five  years, and except for shopping sprees, she
would have been a prisoner for all the freedom allowed her.

One's state of mind could become a  worse prison than actual bars, and from that
perspective, she realized just how imprisoned Tobias had kept her.

She punched a  button on the in-house  phone. “Johnson, I want you  to take me
out today.” Nothing  in her tone or manner was  different from previous times.
It was  only in her  lower stomach that  the difference registered  sharply. The
butterflies were alive  and pulsating, their wings flashing  and fluttering with
the force of a wind-swept storm.

“Yes, ma'am, what time.”

“I'm ready now. I'll be out in a minute.”

Johnson noticed  the flat sandals right  away as he  held the car door  for her.
“Mrs. Chandler, you don't look so  tall without your heels,” he said without
intending discourtesy, his middle-aged face  looking like sun-dried leather with
deep wrinkles.

Rochelle's heart gave a strong lurch. “Yes, I slightly turned my ankle. It was
a bit  swollen and painful,  so I decided against  the heels today.”  Her damp
hand wrapped  around the shoulder strap  of her purse, grasping  tight enough to
cut off circulation in her fingers and turn her knuckles white.

“I never  could understand how  women can walk  around in those  stilted heels
anyway,” he said, smiling broadly, ever  appreciating the lovely visage of his
bosses' wife.

“Wearing heels is the price we  pay to look glamorous, I'm afraid,” Rochelle
replied softly, smiling sweetly despite the raging tremors inside her.

“Where are  we off to, Mrs.  Chandler?” Johnson asked. He  cranked the shiny
black vehicle and steered it down the drive that swept through a lengthy expanse
of lawn and on through the iron-grilled gate opening.

“Take me to my favorite spot, Johnson.”

After Johnson  pulled off  the street  into The  Boutique's little  parking lot,
Rochelle gathered up her purse and waited  for him to open the door. “Johnson,
since it's nearly noon,  why don't you take lunch. I will  probably be busy with
fittings and the like if they got in a new shipment. Take your time. There is no
need to hurry. Just give me a number where  you will be and I can call you. I'll
probably take lunch with Remy.”





Her plans were routinely  the same as many times previously,  and Johnson had no
reason to question them. Habitually, when she  gave him leave for lunch, he went
to his favorite restaurant  where some of his cronies hung  out, spending two or
three hours, never in a hurry because  he knew Mrs. Chandler would call him when
she was finished. He jotted down the  number, remembered by heart, and handed it
to her.



ROCHELLE  WASTED NO  TIME. When  Remy spotted  her coming  through the  doorway,
Rochelle greeted  her as usual.  She inquired about  the duffel bag.  She waited
while Remy fetched it.

“Here it is,” Remy said, holding it up,  “just where I put it. Do you want
it now?”

“Sure, I'll just hold onto it so I won't forget it.” Then turning to eye the
direction of  the bathroom, she  rushed off toward  it. “Too much  coffee this
morning,” she said,  knowing Remy would understand. She had  done that before,
too.

Rochelle used  the bathroom to relieve  her bladder, and then  eased out without
anyone observing her. The bathroom was on  a tiny hallway near the back door, so
Rochelle hurried  out back  to the alley.  She felt like  running once  her feet
touched the pavement, but she knew better than to do anything that might attract
attention.

Instead of running, she walked as fast as she could. The butterflies were taking
a rest now as Rochelle's mind intently strove to follow the carefully laid plans
reviewed dozens of times.

When she came to the end of the  alley where it opened onto the street, she cast
her eyes up  and down, to be sure  the vehicle driven by Johnson  was nowhere in
sight. For  a second her heart  froze in her chest  as a long dark  car, looking
exactly like the  one Johnson drove, passed  right before her eyes.  She was not
able to see the driver because of dark-tinted windows, and whether or not he saw
her, she had no idea. Quickly, she  hailed a cab, which offered concealment, and
Rochelle breathed  more easily once inside.  When they arrived at  the bank, she
asked the cabby to wait for her.

Glancing about the large  bank lobby now, she hoped this would  be her last time
coming here. If things went well, she would be well away from Miami by midnight.

She went to the teller who handled  the deposit boxes and waited her turn behind
an old man who moved and spoke  with arthritic slowness. The teller followed him
into the vaulted  room, turned her key in  the lock, and then waited  for him to
turn his key before showing him to a small private room. All the while, Rochelle
counted the  minutes. The teller came  back out and followed  the same procedure
with Rochelle, except in this instance, keying two safety deposit boxes.

Alone in  the small room, Rochelle  hastily transferred the money  and documents
into the  duffel bag after  taking the  package of clothing  out. It took  a few
minutes longer  than expected to  make the transfer  before she put  the deposit
boxes back, constantly aware of the time ticking  away. She had to be at the bus
station before twelve-thirty, to change clothing, purchase her ticket, and be on
the one o'clock bus.

Sweat broke out all over her as she hurried to the waiting taxi.

Her auburn-gold hair  was such an attention-getter, she hoped  and prayed no one
would  spot her  before she  arrived at  the bus  station and  changed into  the
clothes bundled in  the package. All it would  take to ruin her plans  was for a
single  acquaintance of  Tobias's to  see her  in  a taxi.  It would  be a  dead
giveaway since they all knew Rochelle had her own driver for wherever she wanted
to go.

She gave the taxi driver a street name she knew was only two blocks from the bus
station. If  anyone traced her to  the cab, at  least no one would  be perfectly
sure she had gone to the bus terminal. In the cab, she pulled her hair back in a
ponytail and twirled it around in a bun so it would not be quite so flashy. When
the cab driver  let her out, she  paid him and quickly started  in the direction
opposite from the bus station, wanting to mislead him on the direction she took.
As soon as  he was out of sight,  however, she turned about and  seeing the time
was slipping past too quickly, she hurried toward the bus terminal.

Once inside, she raced to the restroom,  flung off her clothes and tore into the
package containing the most disgusting clothes she would likely ever wear again.
She quickly donned  them, draped the blonde  wig over her head,  added the large
sunglasses and  earrings, and inspected herself  in the mirror. Another  look at
her watch informed her  she had to buy her ticket immediately,  or the bus would
be leaving without her.

She stuffed the clothes  she had pulled off into the  duffel bag, spreading them
so they  covered the  money that would  have invited all  kinds of  thieves from
every dark corner of the planet if  they guessed what she carried. One last look
in the mirror brought a smile to her  lips. She really did look like some young,
dumb, street kid without a care in the world. She did not recognize herself, and
was almost sure that if Tobias could have seen her, he would not have recognized
her either. With the earphones over her  ears, it added to the effect. Satisfied
with her appearance, she rushed from the restroom.

The ticket woman looked at her  distastefully, wondering why young people had to
ruin  their  looks  by  dressing  so  sloppily.  “Where  to?”  she  inquired
indifferently with a bored look on her face.

“Orlando,”  Rochelle said,  ignoring the  woman's critical  stare and  sharp
manner. She paid for her ticket and went to board the bus.

A line  of folk  in front of  her looked  tired before their  trip began,  as if
dreading the long ride ahead of them.





Rochelle  found  a  seat  at  the  very  back of  the  bus,  wanting  to  be  as
inconspicuous as possible. Seeing the bus wasn't filled to capacity, she claimed
both seats, sitting toward the aisle and putting the duffel bag beside her.

Many miles later, after  her bus left the bus station, she  glanced at her watch
and saw it was past three o'clock.  She suspected Johnson would be wondering why
she had  not called. How  long would he continue  to wait, she  wondered, before
eventually realizing that something was wrong?

She tried to  determine the actions of  Johnson and Tobias's guards  back at the
estate. Would they  go in search of  her first or would they  simply call Tobias
right away to report her missing?

Regardless, there would be a mad search to find her. Thank God, she thought now,
that she had disguised herself.

Even in disguise, though, doubts churned restlessly. She was not altogether sure
she had  escaped her prison.  It seemed more appropriate  to say she  was simply
exchanging one prison for another since her fear would keep her just as shackled
as Tobias had done.

She turned on the cassette player and fixed her earphones in place, listening to
music that, despite its soothing tone, made no marked difference in her agitated
nerves. Every  cough, raised voice, or  any sudden braking, caused  her to twist
off  her earphones  so she  could  better hear  what  was going  on around  her.
Finally, she  turned off the  cassette, removed  the earphones, and  prepared to
give closer attention to everything about her.

The miles slowly ticked away, the distance between her and Tobias growing wider.
After she  changed buses in Orlando,  she felt a  bit more secure, but  she knew
better than to get complacent. She still  wasn't out of danger of Tobias's power
and influence. His threat to kill her kept her extremely alert and cautious.

She still had miles to go.





Chapter Seven


In Miami, Rochelle's  absence began taking its toll, and  those having to answer
to  Tobias Chandler  were in  no favorable  moods. By  four o'clock  on the  day
Rochelle  left, Johnson  was still  waiting in  the restaurant  with one  of his
cronies, looking at his watch every few  minutes. He checked with the manager to
see if anyone  called for him, getting  a negative reply. His  friend, Jake, was
talking, but he was not hearing much of  what Jake said. He was beginning to get
very concerned over Mrs. Chandler not  calling. She was usually through shopping
before four o'clock.

“Johnson, why do you keep looking at that infernal watch?”

Jake  asked  irritably,  leaving  his  story  unfinished  since  Johnson  wasn't
listening anyhow.

“I've got  to go,” he  said, jumping from his  chair and rushing  toward the
door, leaving a questioning Jake gazing after him.

At The Boutique  where Johnson dropped Mrs. Chandler, he  parked and went inside
for the first time ever. There had never been a reason before to enter the shop.
A woman met him just inside the door.

“Can I help you, sir?” she asked.

“Yes, who is  Remy?” he inquired, his eyes sweeping  over every visible inch
of the store.

“I'm Remy. What can I do for you?”

“I'm looking for Mrs. Chandler. Is she in the dressing room?”

“Who are you?” Remy asked before answering.

“I'm her chauffeur. Is she here?”





“No, she left some  time ago.” Remy knew Rochelle went out  the back door as
she had numerous times  in the past few weeks, but she wasn't  about to give the
man that  information. She had  to protect her  clientele, else they  would shop
some place else.

“Where did she go?”

“I'm sure I don't know. She never tells me where she's going.”

“Did you see her leave?”

“No, I didn't. I have been rather busy  this afternoon. When I had a moment to
look about, I realized she was gone.”

Johnson picked  up her  phone on the  counter and dialed.  “Dave, we've  got a
problem,” he said into the phone. “Mrs. Chandler has disappeared.”

Dave, the head guard in charge when Tobias was out of town, sat up straight, the
chair groaning with  his weight. Jumping to his feet,  the chair tilted backward
and crashed to the floor. “Gone? What in the hell do you mean, gone?”

“She told me she would call me  when she finished shopping, but she never did.
I got worried and came back to the shop looking for her.”

“Where in the hell were you? You were supposed to be watching her.”

“She told  me to go  have lunch and  she would call  me when she  was finished
shopping.”

“You stupid damn bastard, I thought you knew what your job was!”

“It was nothing new. I've done it many times before.”

“Then we damn well don't have a problem, Johnson, but you sure as hell do. You
get paid to watch her so nothing like this happens.”

“I was following  the routine I've always  followed. What are we  going to do,
Dave?”





“I don't know what you're going to do, but I'm calling the boss.

If I were you,  Johnson, I'd pack a suitcase and get the  fuck out of Miami just
as damn fast as you can.”

“It wasn't my fault. Surely Mr. Chandler won't blame me.”

“Not only will he blame you, but  you'll damn well pay if something's happened
to  her.  Have you  forgotten  those  other two  who  created  problems for  Mr.
Chandler, not to mention at least a dozen others? You do recall them, don't you,
Johnson? Our boss knows how to make people disappear.”

That is all Johnson  needed to hear. He went to the bank,  drew out his savings,
and ditched  the shiny  limo. He  went back  to his  tiny apartment  and started
packing  his clothes,  intending to  catch the  first bus  out of  the city.  He
figured if he could get to New York City and get lost among the hoards of people
Tobias Chandler would never find him.



IT TOOK DAVE A COUPLE of hours before he could track Tobias down, and he dreaded
like hell to  be the one to tell him.  It was his duty, though, since  he was in
charge. He  just hoped  Tobias would  not take  his hostility  out on  him since
Johnson was probably already on his way to the other side of the United States.

“Disappeared?” Tobias  screamed into the  phone, following with a  string of
expletives.  “Disappeared from  where? Can't  any of  you sons  of bitches  do
anything right?”

Dave winced at  the anger in Tobias's voice, and  reluctantly repeated the story
told by Johnson.

“What in  the hell have you  done about it?” he  demanded, rising impatience
seeming  to reach  through  the telephone  from Columbia  to  Miami and  quickly
growing into dangerous rage.

Tobias's breathing sounded hard  and ragged now, and Dave knew the  man was in a
killing mood.  “I sent some of  the guys out with  her picture to some  of the
shops where  she frequently goes.  I told  them to hit  on taxi drivers  and the
ticket tellers  at the bus  station. I also checked  car rental places,  and the
airline, and nothing was booked under Mrs. Chandler's name.”

There was a lengthy span of silence  as Tobias thought it through. When he spoke
again,  he was  calmer than  at  first. “What  does  Johnson have  to say  for
himself?”

“About all he said was that she disappeared.”

“Let me speak to him.”

“I can't,  Mr. Chandler. He  is missing, too. The  guys located the  limo, but
Johnson has also disappeared.”

“I want  that son  of a bitch  found, and you  know what  to do when  you find
him!”

“What about Mrs. Chandler? What do you want me to do?”

“You look for her  and find her, but I'll deal with her  myself. I do not want
the  police called  in.  We will  have  to handle  the  matter ourselves.  Check
pawnshops to see if she pawned jewelry. She had to have money to get out of town
and I never  leave her more than  a couple hundred since I  have charge accounts
established at the places she frequents. She  also has a couple of credit cards.
Find out if she has made any recent charges.”

“Yes, sir, I'll get the boys busy on it.”

“Dave, you get off your ass and find her, do you understand?”

His voice  was suddenly  calm, but  underlying the calmness  was a  deadly rage.
“I'll be back on the earliest plane I  can get, and I'm going to kick some ass
if she's not found by the time I arrive home.”



BOZEMAN WAS  THE LARGEST city  located near  the small bedroom  community called
Windy Point where Rochelle planned to settle. Exhausted from the days and nights
aboard buses,  where she  feared even  taking a nap  with so  much money  in the
duffel bag,  she decided  to spend  a night in  Bozeman before  going on  to her
destination. After  clutching the handle of  the duffel bag until  her hand felt
locked into a  curved fist, and forcing  her eyes to remain open  when her whole
body cried out for  sleep, she knew she needed a bed and  rest. When she arrived
at  Windy Point,  she wanted  to be  at  her mental  best, ready  to handle  the
business of her money, and find a place to live.

Taking a cab, she asked the driver to take  her to the best hotel in town with a
good restaurant. She yearned to bathe and  take off the wig that heated her head
as though she was under a dryer.

She walked  into the hotel lobby  and requested a  room, aware that she  did not
look exactly like the type of guest who would frequent one of the better hotels.
Under normal circumstances, she would have  been ashamed of her appearance. Now,
however, she was thankful for her awful clothing that had served her well in her
escape from Tobias.

“You might  be more comfortable  somewhere else,”  the desk clerk  told her,
eying her questionably, her blond hair flowing over her shoulders like a horse's
coarse mane.

“I'm sure  I will be very  comfortable here,” she assured  him, taking money
from her purse to pay in advance. The desk clerk eyed it suspiciously.

“Ma'am,   this  is   a  respectable   hotel,”  he   warned,  assessing   her
distastefully.

“Sir,  all I  want is  a room  and a  place to  sleep. I  may be  dressed very
foolishly, but my moral  behavior is more refined than yours  I dare say.” She
slid a bill in his hand.

He  looked  startled,   but  instantly  changing  his  attitude,   he  pushed  a
registration card  toward her.  She filled  it out, her  hand scratching  in the
information, all  of which was  a lie. “I'll be  here one night,”  she said.
“How much?”





His reply  was abrupt,  but he  handed her  a key  and told  her the  price. She
counted  out  the  correct amount  and  handed  him,  which  he also  looked  at
questioningly. People paid with credit cards,  rarely using cash for payment. He
was not sure  about this. He could end  up losing his job, but  the twenty bucks
she handed him would come in handy toward the new tire he needed for his car.

“Are there any  clothing shops near the hotel?”  Rochelle inquired, thinking
she would  like to look a  bit smarter tomorrow when  she went to the  bank. Her
wrinkled suit stuffed in the duffel bag would hardly look presentable.

“There's one  a few  blocks over,”  he said,  and gave  her the  address and
directions.

Rochelle took a cab to the location  given her. Their prices were high, but they
had some lovely  clothing that caught her eye immediately.  She received several
evil stares because of her attire, but  for the most part the clerk was friendly
and helpful.  Not in the  mood for  a lot of  shopping, she bought  one gorgeous
white suit and a pale yellow silk blouse to wear with it. She purchased hosiery;
a matching  set of under-things, and  had to go to  a couple more shops  to find
comfortable pumps and a matching purse, cosmetics and personal items.

As soon as she was back at the hotel  in her room, she slid out of her clothing,
glad to rid herself of it as she  stuffed the items into the trashcan along with
the blonde  wig. She kept  her sneakers, socks, and  sunglasses, as well  as her
underwear, which she washed  in the sink and hung on the shower  rod to dry. She
checked  her watch  as she  had done  probably hundreds  of times  since leaving
Miami, and each time she did, palpitations pumped erratically in her chest.

By now, the hue-and-cry had gone out,  and a full-scale search would be underway
for  her. No  doubt, Tobias  cut his  Columbia trip  short and  was likely  in a
killing  mood. He  probably had  considered numerous  ways to  murder her  since
learning of her disappearance.

The fact that she  had outsmarted him, thus far anyway, would  be enough to make
him more dangerous than ever. Her life would  not be worth a wooden nickel if he
found her. The thought of his virulent rage sent a shiver along her spine.

She bathed,  washed her  hair and toweled  it dry. She  called room  service and
ordered a green salad  and ham sandwich and some hot tea.  When she finished her
meal,  she could  not stop  yawning.  God, I  have  never been  this tired,  she
thought.

Tucking the duffel bag beneath the bed covers next to her, she fell into a hard,
fast sleep that lasted throughout the afternoon and night.

When she awoke the following morning, she ordered a huge breakfast and plenty of
coffee through room service. She wanted to  remain out of the public eye as much
as possible  even if she  was far away from  Miami. She considered  changing her
appearance, maybe cutting  off some of her flamboyant auburn-gold  hair, but had
no scissors.

She dressed in her new white suit, looking like a completely new person when she
made her way down  to the lobby. Her long, shapely legs  drew attention from the
short hemline down to  the black patent leather pumps she wore,  but she did not
notice. Still emotionally  tired despite all the many hours  of sleep, her brain
would not let go of all the visions  of what must be happening in Miami. She was
physically free  from Tobias, but she  would never be emotionally  free. Fear of
Tobias discovering her whereabouts kept her bound  to him as completely as if he
were by her side.

The desk clerk looked  at her with appreciation, and did  not recognize her, not
even when she informed him she would like to pay her room service charges.





He looked puzzled, not having remembered checking her in.

“What room,  miss?” He asked, scratching  his head. When she  handed him the
key, he did an about face, his eyes gleaming with surprise.

Rochelle settled her  tab and asked him to  order her a cab. She only  had a few
minutes to wait.

“To the  bus station,” she  told the taxi driver,  hoping this would  be her
last bus  ride. Buses made  her hopelessly  uncomfortable now after  spending so
many long endless hours on them.

As the bus carried  her to Windy Point, she thought of her  parents and the time
the three  of them  visited the  small town  years previously.  She was  deep in
thought when  the bus stopped  on the curb  next to a  bus stop sign  across the
street from the post office.

With  her duffel  bag handle  clutched tightly  in her  fisted hand,  she walked
toward the business  district, suddenly feeling more alone than  she'd ever been
in her  life. This  morning, upon  waking, her body,  her mind,  everything felt
numb. Now, her precarious  situation hit her with a rush of  emotion. She was on
her own with no friends, no one to turn to, and feeling akin to a hunted animal.
Depression weighed heavily upon her tense shoulders. She tried to concentrate on
her surroundings, barely remembering anything from  her visit years ago with her
parents. She felt like crying, but bit back the urge.

Landmarks looked different and strange,  quite unfamiliar to her wandering gaze.
Recalling the town had been small, now she  could see it had not changed a great
deal. It  was still small with  a row of stores  and shops on both  sides of the
avenue, compacted close enough within a commercially zoned area as to put things
within easy  walking distance. Nearer  the outskirts was  a motel, also  in easy
walking  distance. It  was where  she  and her  parents stayed  when her  father
visited with his good friend, James Matheson, many years ago.

“James Matheson,” Rochelle  whispered aloud to herself, digging  the name of
her father's friend from her memory, the man she would soon be seeing.

She started down  the sidewalk of the main street,  feeling extremely nervous at
the prospect of dealing  with Mr. Matheson, even if he had been  a friend of her
father. She  expected the  bank to be  a small establishment  much like  all the
little modernized shops  and stores with decorative facades.  She was pleasantly
surprised when she spotted the bank, and saw it was a nearly new structure.

When she went  inside, its modern architecture was somehow  very stabilizing and
friendly,  as  was  the  modern  decor.  The  floor  contained  a  carpet  in  a
conservative shade of gray with borders of dark mauve. Padded chairs, covered in
mauve leather complemented the rough  textured wallpaper with its abstract lines
and shapes. The lobby was enormous  with several tall patron desks spaced across
the length of its center and  containing deposit slips, credit applications, and
other banking forms. Green plants, selectively placed, lent an earthy setting.

Rochelle's heart pounded against  her chest as she went to  the first teller she
saw. Business and banking  were not exactly her areas of  expertise, and she was
frightened that she might somehow bungle  this, considering she had so much cash
on her. One  phone call to Tobias  for verification of who she  was would surely
mean  ultimate death  for  her. She  could  feel  her hands  grow  damp and  the
butterflies start up again.

“I'd like to see Mr. James Matheson,” she said, and watched the woman's face
take  on a  frown  that raised  Rochelle's uneasiness.  Her  hands were  shaking
nervously. All alone in a strange place, with no one for moral support, feelings
of loneness and fear consumed her.





If not  for her father's  referral to James Matheson,  she would fear  having to
deal with  anyone else. She hadn't  the foggiest idea how  far-reaching Tobias's
organization was, and giving her name to anyone could create a trail leading him
to her. She dared not trust anyone.

“May I ask what the nature of  your business is?” the woman asked, replacing
her initial frown with her best professional look as she sized Rochelle up.

“Investments,” Rochelle told her, trying to sound confident.

“I'm here to make an investment.”

“Hold on, miss. I'll see if Mr. Matheson can see you now.” She picked up the
phone, and  spoke quietly. “Mr.  Matheson, there's a  young woman here  who is
asking for James  Matheson. She says she  would like to make  an investment. Can
you see her, sir?”

A silent pause at the woman's end preceded  a nod of her head before she hung up
the phone. “If you'll  go down to the end of the teller  windows, you'll see a
door there on your left. Just knock on it, and go right in.”

Rochelle nodded,  wondering why the  woman stared  at her so  inquisitively. Her
paranoia was  in overdrive. The  butterflies fluttered nervously, and  her palms
felt terribly clammy. She was  extraordinarily afraid of questions. Any personal
information given  out could easily establish  a paper trail making  it easy for
Tobias  to find  her. She  hoped  James Matheson  would  not make  her quite  so
nervous.

She took a deep breath, her mind focused so intently on Tobias possibly locating
her,  she  could  barely  think coherently.  She  found  herself  subconsciously
glancing over her shoulder. She took  another deep breath, knowing she needed to
get control. Putting  herself out in public among people  presented the greatest
concern for her.





Stopping in  front of the  heavy door, she read  the nameplate bearing  the name
Michael Matheson, President.

A flicker  of confusion caused her  to frown. She searched  her memory, thinking
she might  have incorrectly  recalled Mr. James  Matheson's first  name. Perhaps
Michael was his middle name, she thought.

Straightening her back and changing her  facial features to the inscrutable mask
she'd long worn with Tobias, she tapped lightly on the door.





Chapter Eight


Michael Matheson  finished signing  his name  to the document  on his  desk, and
stood up at the  sound of tapping on his office door. It  wasn't unusual for new
investors to  request a meeting with  him, but he was  pleasantly surprised when
this particular investor opened the door and stepped into his office.

She  stood  there, her  hand  on  the doorknob,  staring  at  his face,  looking
considerably confused. While she attempted  to sort through the sudden questions
plaguing her,  Michael was trying  to stop staring.  She was the  most beautiful
woman  to  walk  through  that  door  since  he  took  over  running  the  bank.
Meticulously groomed,  she looked like  someone out  of a glamour  magazine. Her
clothing was tasteful, expensive, and very feminine on her shapely figure.

She was beautiful—more than beautiful, he thought. She was exquisite.

“Please come in,” Michael said.





Rochelle remained where she stood, gazing questionably at him.

“There's been a mistake,” she said with a slight quiver in her voice.

“I was looking for a Mr. James Matheson.”

Michael slipped  from behind his  desk. Seizing the  doorknob from her  hand, he
pushed the door  shut. Placing his hand lightly upon  Rochelle's back, he guided
her to a chair. “James Matheson was my father,” he informed her.

His use of the  word was, passed right by her  attention. “Your father?” she
questioned, taking a seat and sitting on the  edge of the chair. She gazed up at
his more than six foot height, tilting  her head back on her shoulders to better
view  his face.  “I  thought  he was  the  bank  president,” she  continued,
watching  Michael move  around his  desk and  lower his  muscular form  into his
leather-upholstered executive  chair. She observed  his darkly tanned  face. She
clutched the  handle of  the duffel bag  she had  set on the  floor next  to her
chair.

Michael reached for a pen, which he  toyed with distractedly, and leaned back in
his high-backed  office chair.  “My father  died nearly  two years  ago,” he
explained.

The information jolted Rochelle, and she suddenly looked shocked and worried.

“That can't be,” she exclaimed, clearly disturbed at the news.

“What I  mean is…”  she paused  in mid-sentence.  “I'm sorry  about your
father's death.”

Her voice quivered and Michael nearly reached for a tissue to hand her, thinking
she was about to cry. He held  back, however, watching her take a deep steadying
breath.

“Why don't  you tell  me who  you are, and  what business  you required  of my
father,” Michael suggested.





“Your father  was a friend  of my father. Before  dad died, he  deposited some
money in  this bank for me,  and told me to  come see Mr. James  Matheson when I
needed to access the account.”

Michael was clearly startled.  He knew immediately who she was  by the amount of
money her  father had deposited  in his bank  for her. “I'm  Michael Matheson,
James's youngest son. Perhaps I can help you, Mrs...”

Rochelle glanced at  her lap where her  left hand curled into a  tight fist. The
large  diamond-encrusted  wedding  rings  on her  finger  glittered  brilliantly
beneath the  fluorescent lighting. Realizing  all at  once how careless  she had
been not to remove the rings, she  did so now. Unobtrusively, she slid them from
her finger, dropping them into a tiny zippered pocket of her purse.

“I'm Rochelle  Rathbone,” she said, using  her maiden name that  would be on
the accounts  her father  set up in  the Matheson bank.  “I suppose  you don't
remember my father, Joshua Rathbone?”

Michael's forehead  creased into a  thoughtful frown,  as he reached  across his
desk and shook her hand. “As a matter of fact, the name is familiar. I believe
your father  visited here about five  years ago. I recall  that particular visit
because I made a  special trip here to Windy Point to  participate in a birthday
celebration for my dad.

Your  father and  mother's visit  coincided with  the occasion  and they  joined
us.”

“Then you do remember him,” Rochelle stated, pleased. She shifted her weight
closer to the edge of the chair and bent forward expectantly.

“Yes, as a matter of fact, I do. He spoke of you a number of times.”

Michael could not  take his eyes away  as her shoulders slumped  with relief and
she let  out a long  sigh. Her coral  lips parted into  a sad little  smile. She
pushed herself back in her chair, which set at one end of his desk, giving him a
full, clear view of her. She crossed  her knees to expose long shapely legs. Her
skirt rode high  up her silky thighs.  He purposely moved his eyes  to her right
hand that continued to clutch the handle of the duffel bag.

She sighed with relief. “For a moment there I was afraid…”

She cut her sentence short, and Michael was wondering now what it was she wanted
with him. He  was aware of the  account her father had  established. Everyone at
the bank was.  It was one of their  largest accounts. The fact that  it set idle
for the past years  in a money market account with low  interest rates had drawn
the questionable curiosity of a number of his bank employees.

“Are you  moving here  to the  area, Miss  Rathbone?” he  asked in  his best
businesslike manner.

She uncrossed  her legs,  and then crossed  them again with  the other  leg. Her
white skirt rode up  a little higher leaving lace peeking  from beneath the hem.
Michael's breath caught in his throat as he subconsciously leaned forward in his
chair, his eyes lingering just long enough on her silky legs to bring a blush to
her cheeks.  She raised  her hips  and self-consciously  pulled down  her skirt,
lowering her eyes behind  long lashes as she answered him. “Yes,  I do plan to
move… live here,”  she corrected. “I wish to establish  a checking account
with your bank.”

Her voice held a light quiver again, and Michael's eyes studied her hand holding
the  duffel bag,  wondering why  it seemed  so important  to her.  She nervously
clasped and unclasped her fingers around the handle.

“Are you  okay, Miss Rathbone?  You seem rather apprehensive,”  Michael said
just before his phone rang. He lifted it, listened, and then informed the caller
he didn't want to be disturbed.

He put  the phone down, watching  Rochelle, and quietly deciding  to string this
meeting  out as  long as  possible.  It wasn't  every day  someone so  beautiful
wandered into his office.

“I've been traveling, and I'm extremely tired.”

“From where have you traveled?”

Her brows knitted, and she looked at  him with a note of hesitancy in answering.
This meeting  was not  going the way  she hoped. The  impression that  she could
simply walk  into the bank,  see Mr. James Matheson,  and put everything  in his
capable  hands  had backfired.  Instead,  Michael  Matheson seemed  intent  upon
conducting  an  interview  with  her,  which  she  wanted  to  avoid.  The  less
information she disclosed  about herself, the safer she would  feel. Her aim was
to bury Rochelle Chandler and become Rochelle Rathbone again.

“If you  don't mind,  I would  like to  access my  accounts,” she  told him,
instead of answering his question.

“I believe you only have one account,” he replied.

“There's also money  in a safety deposit box.” She  reached inside her purse
and pulled out the safety-deposit box key, handing it across the desk to him.

“I see,” he  replied, leaning forward to retrieve and  examine the key. “I
will need identification, of course.”

“Isn't the key sufficient? I wouldn't have it unless I'm who I say I am.”

“Asking for  identification is standard  procedure, Miss Rathbone,”  he said
with a faint shrug.

“What if I don't have  identification?” she inquired, suddenly uncomfortable
with this  meeting, and the  prospect of having  to share her  driver's license,
which had  Tobias's Miami address  on it. She  didn't know Michael  Matheson and
didn't trust him with information that  might inadvertently find its way back to
Tobias.

He stood up. “I tell you what, why don't  we go across the street for a cup of
coffee. We can talk there.”





Suddenly she was angry.  “Mr. Matheson, I came here hoping to  meet with a man
who knew  my father  and whom I  could trust,  and who would  help me  handle my
financial affairs.  Instead, I  have no choice  but to deal  with you,  in which
case, I need to establish a checking account.  Will you, or will you not, let me
access my savings account and the  safety deposit box?” She gripped the handle
of the duffel bag  tighter, afraid for him to know what was  inside it until she
felt more trusting of Mr. Michael Matheson.

“Your father left some information concerning  his estate? Do you know who the
executor is?” Michael asked.

“Yes. He's my Godfather, Bentley Harrison.”

“Then call him, and he can corroborate your identity.”

“I  don't want  to call  him.” She  jumped to  her feet,  entirely edgy  and
nervous now. She turned  toward the door, prepared to leave, but  as soon as she
grabbed  the doorknob,  it dawned  upon her  that she  would have  to deal  with
Michael Matheson  unless she planned  to carry around  a duffle bag  filled with
money. She knew how  dangerous that could be, so undoubtedly,  she would have to
compromise by supplying information about herself.

Michael remained  sitting in his  chair while  he watched Rochelle  preparing to
leave.  He parked  one ankle  on his  knee, leaned  far back  in his  chair, and
clasped his  hands and fingers behind  his head, knowing that  whatever she did,
she would  have to come  back eventually.  “That offer of  a cup of  coffee is
still good,” he remarked unconcernedly, as she paused at the door.

“Very well, I accept,” she said a bit icily, realizing that trusting Michael
Matheson was her only option.

Michael rose from his chair joined her at the door. They walked past the tellers
windows on their way  out, and he did not miss the  eager, quizzing glances that
flew their way.  Seeing someone new in town, especially  someone as beautiful as
his new client brought  the gossips out of the woodwork.  Everyone he knew would
note any contact, business or personal, which  he had with Rochelle from now on.
Once her name was  recognized as the one on that huge account  her father set up
for  her, she  would become  a kind  of  celebrity and  wouldn't be  able to  go
anywhere without people staring and watching her.

Gossip was characteristic of small towns and Windy Point was notorious for it.



“MR. MATHESON, I'M AT A  TERRIBLE disadvantage,” Rochelle admitted when they
were outside  the bank  and her  lungs had  filled with  several puffs  of fresh
spring air.  It smelled differently here  than in Miami where  exhaust fumes and
other thick odors punctuated the atmosphere  of the entire city. Here it smelled
of mountains,  of hills and  valleys that  wore a cloak  of bright green  as new
blades of grass greeted a breathtaking spring.

“And how is that Miss Rathbone?”

“My father obviously trusted  your father a great deal, and  I was prepared to
extend my trust to him as well. Discovering I will be dealing with someone else,
I'm having  reservations about  whether I  can place my  trust in  you as  I was
prepared to do with your father.”

He  gave her  a  sidewise glance,  looking vaguely  slighted.  “I assure  you,
Miss  Rathbone, that  all  bank accounts  are handled  with  the utmost  privacy
and  discretion. Our  customer  relations and  confidentiality  have never  been
questioned before.”

Rochelle tilted her head  back and stared toward a beautiful  blue sky, her long
auburn-gold curls falling down her back nearly to her waist. A white puffy cloud
floating across  the sky caught her  attention a moment before  she diverted her
attention back to Michael and his nicely tanned profile.





“I'm not  speaking of  professional confidentiality.  My situation  is unique,
and  I  need to  know  I  can trust  you  explicitly  before I  start  producing
identification such as you requested earlier.”

“Surely you must know that I cannot  run a bank efficiently or successfully if
the people I do business with aren't able to put their trust in me.”

Rochelle stopped in  her tracks. “I don't think you're  following me. Have you
ever been afraid for your life, Mr. Matheson?”

“Do you  fear for your  life, Miss Rathbone?” He  touched her back  with his
fingertips, and they continued strolling.

His  articulate evasiveness  exasperated  Rochelle.  “Yes, I  do  fear for  my
life,” she answered forthrightly.

He halted  at the door  of the  restaurant. He stared  into her tired  eyes that
resembled moist  green pools reflecting  deep melancholy.  It reminded him  of a
time  not so  long ago  when he  could measure  his own  life by  broken dreams,
crushed hopes,  and frustration-filled  days. The ordeal  after his  arrest, the
time he had spent in  jail, and the long days of his trial  had all been akin to
dying by slow degrees.

“Let's discuss  it over  coffee, and see  if we can't  make things  easier for
you,” he informed her.





Chapter Nine


Looking  around while  Michael  pulled  a chair  out  and  seated Rochelle,  the
sterile-clean restaurant  caused memories to  return from years  previously when
she was  ten-years-old. The restaurant had  not changed much. The  worn polished
floor tiles gave off a waxy shine much  as they had when she was last there. The
winter-white walls boasted aged looking  paintings of yellow and green prairies,
horses, and cowboys  that Rochelle remembered seeing the first  time she and her
parents ate  there. Ancient fans  overhead, which she recalled,  whirred lazily,
the season  still too cool for  air conditioning. Somehow, it  felt familiar and
safe here, the family atmosphere causing Rochelle to feel not quite so homeless.

Michael took a seat across from Rochelle,  and the waitress rushed over with two
glasses of water. She greeted Michael as  Mike, and took their order for coffee,
which she brought back shortly.

Without the business atmosphere of Michael's  office, Rochelle was more aware of
his presence;  the manly  quality of  his voice, his  erect posture,  his darkly
tanned face with long dark lashes and brows, his strong, capable hands with fine
black hairs edging his knuckles, and  the aristocratic features of his face. The
soft scent of his  aftershave lotion wafted to her nostrils,  a spicy smell that
was  both  pleasant  and  appealing.  He  possessed  calmness,  unlike  Tobias's
aggressive manner.

“A penny for your  thoughts,” Michael remarked with a hint  at humor. He was
watching  the pulse  at  her  throat beating  rhythmically  against her  creamy,
faintly tanned complexion.

She sent him a rueful smile. “You would be short-changed I'm afraid.”

The sight  of her  pleased Michael,  and her secrets  invited his  curiosity and
interest. “Tell me about your father,”  he said, and watched her smile fade.
A contemplative mood  washed over her lovely face. The  auburn-gold hair bounced
conspicuously with each movement. She measured her words as she lifted her chin,
taking in every angle, line, and the texture of his face. Then her eyes softened
with gentle regret.

“Both my  father and mother  were killed in  an automobile accident  more than
five years ago. It happened soon after Dad visited here,” she replied softly.





“I'm sorry.”

“It's all  right,” she  said, a half-smile  faint on her  lips at  a distant
thought. “Mom and Dad were both wonderful  parents and left me with many happy
memories.”

And lots  of money, Michael  thought cynically while his  eyes lit on  her wide,
sensuous, full  ripe lips. Her  smile, when exhibited  in a more  pleasant mood,
could probably charm a lion. She was  beautiful, one of those helpless women men
loved assisting. He should know. He knew her  for less than an hour, and was all
ready  obsessed with  her. She  probably had  known her  share of  pampering, he
thought. The  diamond rings worn  earlier, and  the diamond encrusted  watch she
still wore were strong evidence of that notion.

Rochelle glanced  about the  restaurant, seeing  a light  friendliness displayed
amongst the  patrons. “I've been here  before. It was  a long time ago,  but I
recall this restaurant well.”

“It's  an old  establishment and  draws a  good number  of locals  as well  as
travelers from the interstate. When were you here?”

“I was only ten years old. It was years ago. I met your father then, but I had
totally forgotten about this place until now.  In fact, my parents and I visited
here with Mr. Matheson over coffee and coke for me.”

“How is it our fathers knew each other?”

“Dad mentioned that they were friends in college. Dad was a Harvard man.”

“So was my father. It is interesting they kept in touch after all those years.
Anyway, what brings you back to Windy Point?”

“I explained that to you. Before my father died, he told me Mr.

Matheson would help me if ever I needed to depend upon someone.”

“I'm afraid I don't understand. Why would you need to depend upon anyone?”





She studied  him critically for  several seconds before answering,  deciding she
had no other choice but to put her trust in him.

“I'm running away  from someone, Mr. Matheson. My father  had the foresight to
suspect something like this might happen. It is why he opened the account for me
in your bank. I ran away because I fear for my life. That is why I was afraid to
give you  information about myself? Perhaps  I'm paranoiac, but I  don't want to
share information that might lead someone to me.”

“I assure you, Miss  Rathbone, that you can trust me just as  much as you were
prepared to trust my father. Your  secrets are safe with me.” Something caught
in his  chest as she smiled  at him then, and  he swore it was  a million dollar
smile  even  if it  was  only  gratefulness—or  maybe  just relief.  Her  lips
quivered, giving the impression she was  near tears. Vulnerable fool that he was
to a pretty woman's smile, the strong  masculine urge to comfort and protect was
having a field day.

“Thank you,” she said simply, inclining  her head, her long lashes, darkened
with mascara, fanning her high cheeks.

“You're  welcome, but  I do  have a  simple request,”  he said,  drawing her
attention to his face.

“What?”

“Do you think we could drop the titles? My name is Michael.”

He extended his hand across the table, and her slender fingers curved about his.

“I'm Rochelle,”  she said, feeling the  warm strength of his  hand enclosing
hers. Tiny vibrations of heat caused a slow shiver to crawl along her spine. The
handclasp made her aware  of him, not just as a banker, but  rather, as a virile
and compelling man, whose blue eyes warmed enticingly.

The handclasp  continued too long,  and she  noticed Michael's palms  were rough
with calluses. She wondered how that was  possible when he worked in a bank. She
pulled her hand  back, becoming self-conscious to discover she  liked his touch,
which seemed somehow gentle.

I'm literally starved for human compassion, Rochelle thought.

The years of verbal, physical and sexual abuse had left her feeling like a cold,
empty shell of a woman. Tobias had accused  her of being an iceberg, and she had
no doubt that his abuse had turned her into one. She often wondered if she would
ever know real pleasure in intimacy. Was she incapable of reaching that pinnacle
she had  heard was  one of  the most satisfying  pleasures between  a man  and a
woman? Would she hate sex with any man, the way she hated it with Tobias. With a
sigh, she knew it didn't matter. She  certainly had no intention of finding out.
That area of her life was now retired.

She lowered  her head,  staring into her  coffee cup. She  was tired  and weary,
unbalanced by too many problems that distance from Tobias had not resolved.

The handclasp left Michael feeling a sudden sense of kinship with Rochelle and a
desire to  know her  better. Actually,  he credited the  interest to  his rather
strong  libido—and maybe  even to  a need  for companionship.  Those same  two
reasons made him, like most bachelors, a sucker for a beautiful woman.

“What are  your plans, Rochelle?”  Michael enquired, hoping to  acquire more
information about her. So far, all he knew was her name, and that her father had
established an account for her in his bank. Suddenly showing up on the threshold
of his office clutching a duffel bag,  and no indication of where she came from,
she might have been from Mars for all he knew.

“My plans?” she echoed  his question. “I need to find a  house, buy a car,
and maybe get a job later on.”

“What kind of job are you looking for?”





A confused frown  crossed her brow, and  she turned up her lips  as if something
smelled bad. “I don't know,” she said, embarrassed.

“I've never worked before.”

Just then, she laughed, a sparkling,  tinkling sound that was extremely pleasant
to Michael's  ears. “I suppose an  employer wouldn't find my  résumé of much
value.”

“Maybe I can help.”

“Mr. Matheson, that's exactly what I've  been asking for—your help. I need a
checking account.”

“Michael,” he reminded her. “Please call me Michael. I believe I explained
that you needed to contact Mr. Harrison.”

“Yes,  you  did  explain  that;  however,  I  need  assurance  you  won't  put
information  about  me on  some  computer  database,  where someone  can  easily
pinpoint my whereabouts. I  am not very expert at any of this.  I have never run
away before.  I have  never handled  money before.  In fact,  I have  never gone
anywhere alone until I traveled here. I  do need to depend on someone, and since
it cannot be your father, it has to be you. I simply need to keep a low profile,
and while  I do  trust Bentley Harrison,  I am  afraid to call  him for  fear of
putting him in jeopardy.

“If this all sounds  dramatic, it's because you don't know  all the details. I
just know I  can never go back to  where I came from, and that  choice might not
continue to  be mine  if my whereabouts  become known.” She  looked at  him in
bewilderment, hoping for his understanding.

Searching   his  rather   poker-face  expression,   she  continued.   “I  have
identification—a driver's  license, but it  also has an  address on it  that I
don't want to share because if it got in the wrong hands, it could mean my life.
Now, do you understand, Michael?”





“I  think I'm  beginning to  get the  picture,” he  replied, her  disclosure
indicating how vulnerable she was. “I'm a good listener if you need someone to
talk to,” he offered.

Rochelle  studied him.  His  face  had strength  and  character,  and more  than
conventional good looks, but  he was still a stranger, and  she was reluctant to
put all her trust in him. “Thanks, I'll remember that.”

Rochelle noticed he had not shown any  indication of changing his mind about her
calling Bentley. Like  with everything else, she seemed to  have limited options
when it came to banking.

The duffle bag  set on a chair next  to her. She reached over,  and clutched the
handle for several  seconds, thoughtfully considering an idea.  Finally, she set
it on the floor beneath the table,  nudging Michael's knees with it. “I'd like
for you to take  this,” she directed, staring into his  sky-blue eyes. When he
hesitated, she said, “Please take it.”

He watched  her with a puzzled  frown, but he  lifted it, noticing how  heavy it
was. Pushing his chair back a few inches,  he set the duffel bag on his lap, all
the while staring at Rochelle questioningly.

“Well, now what?” he asked, waiting for further instructions.

“Open it,” she told him sitting forward expectantly.

Michael undid the  clasp, and opened the  bag. He saw clothing  on top, visually
examined it,  and then lifted a  lacy bra just  high enough for Rochelle  to see
what he  was doing. A  grin curled  his lips while  he waited for  her reaction.
“This is very nice, but I don't exactly  understand why you want me to look at
it.”

Rochelle's face  turned crimson.  “Push the  clothing aside.”  she retorted,
sitting on the edge of her chair and  watching his face. He was a banker, so she
did  not expect  him to  be shocked  at what  the duffel  bag contained,  but he
was—big time.





“Jesus H Christ!” he exclaimed loudly,  drawing stares from around the room.
He snapped  the duffel bag shut,  turning an intense speculating  gaze upon her.
“You've been walking around with this?”

he  remarked disbelievingly  in  a strong  whisper that  drew  more stares  from
nearby. “Don't  you have better  sense than  this?” he added,  appalled, and
setting the bag at his feet.

Rochelle felt his gaze sweep over her  like invisible hands. “Yes, I have been
walking around with it, and yes, I do  have good sense, but some things can't be
helped. I would like to deposit it in your bank. I have the withdrawal slips.”

“There must be a million dollars or more here,” he whispered.

His blue eyes danced from her face down  to her throat, her breast, then back up
again. He stared at her lips.

She traced  his face  with her eyes,  distracted by his  dark sensual  gaze that
swept over her.

“Will you let  me deposit it?” she asked timidly,  feeling her heart beating
much too fast as he continued staring at her.

He  shook his  head with  disbelief. A  sardonic grin  slowly traced  across his
handsome lips, and  his white teeth flashed  with a pearly sparkle  as he spoke.
“I suppose  I'll have to if  for no other reason  than to keep you  from being
robbed, bludgeoned and killed.

Rochelle, whatever possessed  you to carry around cash? You  could have gotten a
cashier's check, you know.” He sounded like a father speaking to his child.

Her  voice raised  an octave  or two.  “I told  you I've  never handled  money
before, but I do know checks can be traced. I did what I thought was best.”

He laughed  softly, it more an  expression of astonishment than  humor. “I can
see why your father would want to send you to my father.”





Outrage  exploded in  her  brain. She  might be  inexperienced,  but she  wasn't
stupid. She had lived with mockery for five years with Tobias. She was not about
to idly accept it from an insolent stranger.

“I thank you not  to make fun of me,” she  said contemptuously, reaching for
her purse, prepared to say to hell  with Michael Matheson, at least for the time
being.

His hand shot across the table and covered her hand. “I'm sorry.

I was  out of line.  I simply couldn't believe  you've been walking  around with
this.” He held  his hand on hers until her  shoulders relaxed. “Exactly what
kind of business was your father in?” he questioned, his eyes twinkling with a
kind of idle amusement.

“I wasn't exactly walking  around with it. I was riding a  bus. To answer your
question, my father was one of those  big-shot lawyers who took all the cases no
one else wanted,  and he charged big  bucks for getting his clients  off. He was
never short on  capital or financial security,  but he worked very  hard to earn
it.  He  was  honest,  too,  and  I don't  appreciate  any  implication  to  the
contrary.”

“I'm  sorry  again.  You have  a  right  to  correct  me. Tell  me  about  the
accident.”

“The car  he and  my mother  were in  was crushed  by a  tractor-trailer while
stopped at  a traffic light.”  A faraway expression flickered  inaudibly while
she spoke with a vulnerable quiver on her lips.

“Was the driver of the tractor-trailer charged?” Michael watched the play of
emotions across her features.

“He disappeared into the crowd, and couldn't be traced. The owner of the truck
could  not  be  traced  either.  The  vehicle  identification  number  had  been
destroyed, the license plate was missing and there was no owner registration.”

That  sounded  suspicious,  Michael  thought.   “Do  you  believe  it  was  an
accident?”





Rochelle  trained her  eyes on  his evenly,  and shook  her head,  shrugging her
shoulders. “I don't know. I keep thinking it likely was not an accident. All I
know is  that I  don't want to  end up  the same way.”  She became  aware that
Michael Matheson  was drawing  her out,  getting her  to say  far more  than she
intended.

Michael understood the  implication. His eyes warmed with  kindness. He suddenly
had the crazy desire to hold her until  there was no more sadness in her emerald
green eyes.  Perhaps he  was over-reacting,  but she  was the  first presentable
woman  he  had  met  since  leaving  San  Francisco.  Caroline,  his  occasional
companion, in a rather bizarre, one-sided relationship, did not really count.

“If my father were here, I know he would  help you in any way he could. He was
the kind of man willing to do anything  for his friends. I'll help you however I
can.”

Rochelle raised her chin, staring at him in quick appreciation.

Her eyes turned to green pools of moisture, which she hurriedly dashed away with
deft fingers. When she spoke, a noticeable quiver strained her voice.

She nodded her  head. “Thanks, that's a big weight  off my shoulders. Carrying
all that money  around frightened me half  to death. I feel as  though I haven't
slept  for days  due  to being  afraid  to do  more than  doze  while riding  on
buses.”

Michael touched her arm briefly, his voice suddenly gentle.

“Why don't we go back to the bank and take care of business?”

He tossed  a bill on  the table, and standing,  lifted the duffel  bag, offering
Rochelle his  other hand.  She took  it. Rising  from her  chair, she  felt warm
vibrations ooze sensation from his hand to  hers. He had a strong hand, callused
and rough, but it felt good. She briefly clung to it, then let go.

She walked alongside  Michael Matheson, slightly intoxicated by  faint whiffs of
his aftershave lotion or cologne. He was several inches taller than she was, and
was dressed in a  gray business suit similar to ones  Tobias sometimes wore. She
could not help  but mentally compare them. Michael was  much younger than Tobias
was, his body a sculpture of proud  masculine muscle and brawn, while Tobias was
growing a paunch and gaining weight.

Michael wore  no wedding band,  so Rochelle supposed  he must be  single. Warmth
crept through her  veins and stole up  her cheeks as she felt  his eyes watching
her. However,  the fleeting  reminder of why  she was here  sent a  cold shudder
through her system.

“Would you  like to check  your safety deposit  box?” he inquired  when they
entered the bank.

“Yes, if it's permissible.”

He took her back to the vault himself, carrying the box to a small room for her.
When he started  to go, she stopped him, unconsciously  needing his nearness for
support. It  never crossed  her mind that  she might be  keeping him  from other
duties. Nevertheless, he  did say he would  help her. Having him  close was more
comforting than  she wanted  to admit.  He made  her feel  a little  less alone.
Oddly, placing trust in someone had that effect.

“Don't go,” she said, when he turned to leave.

“Are you sure?”

“Would you mind?”

“No, of course not.”

She opened  the box,  and while  the contents  did not  surprise her,  she heard
Michael suck in a  big breath of air. The box contained  cash, old money handled
and passed through numerous hands.

Rochelle glanced  up at Michael,  and he shook  his head in  amazement, suddenly
wondering where so  much money came from, and having  some second thoughts about
her depositing it in an account in  his bank. It wasn't unusual for questionable
persons to stash dirty money from drug sales in safety deposit boxes.





Chapter Ten


A prevailing silence ensued, and finally, Michael spoke first.

“Rochelle, you realize I have to contact Bentley Harrison, don't you?”

He moved to a standing position just  behind where she sat. His hand touched the
back of her chair, and she turned to look up at him.

His  closeness, and  the heat  emanating from  him, was  somehow unsettling  and
comforting at once.

“If you have to contact Uncle Bentley, then I have no choice.”

His fingers  touched her  shoulder gently  for a  second, and  Rochelle's nerves
flooded with a warm excitement too new to define.

In the  five years Rochelle  was with Tobias, Remy,  owner of The  Boutique, was
probably the closest  person she knew whom  she could call friend.  The cook had
been friendly enough,  but Tobias's abuse taught her not  to trust anyone. Trust
was a commodity she did not have a great deal of, or more aptly put, she did not
find too  many people  worthy of  it. Michael,  on the  other hand,  was gaining
points fast in the trust department.

Before Rochelle closed the safety deposit  box, she slipped her diamond rings in
it.

Michael returned the box to its place. He led Rochelle back to his office, aware
of heavy stares as bank employees  and customers followed their progress through
the  lobby. Most  of them  had  never seen  him  so patronizing  with a  client,
especially a female client. It was bound to cause a stir, but he could live with
the gossip. He  just wanted to keep  it from touching Rochelle.  From the little
information gained from  her, he believed she had experienced  some tough times.
She needed no additional concerns now.

When Rochelle saw Michael raise his arm to look at his watch, it dawned upon her
she had monopolized a good deal of his time.

She reacted. “I'm terribly sorry I've taken  so much of your time. If you have
something else to do…”

“No  problem,” he  said quietly.  “Would you  have me  turn away  the most
affluent client I have?  My time is your time. Anyway, it isn't  often we have a
new face  in town,” he stated  frankly and was  rewarded with a meek  smile of
gratitude.

When they  were in  his office,  Rochelle slumped into  the same  chair occupied
earlier, her shoulders drooping tiredly.

“Are you okay, Rochelle?” Michael asked.

“I'm just  tired. I  do not  suppose we  can postpone  this until  tomorrow. I
really need to find a place to stay.”

“I would be  remiss in my duty as  your banker if I didn't  advise you against
postponement.  You cannot  keep  carrying around  that bag  of  money. It's  too
dangerous.”

“Then tell me what to do.”

“Do you have any idea how much money is in that bag?”

“No, it's only  a guess. I know how  much I withdrew from the  bank, but there
was additional money in a safety deposit box. It has to be counted.”

“Let's take first things first. Why don't we call Bentley Harrison?”

He made a call to a teller,  requesting information. Picking up a pen, he jotted
it down on a  pad. Rochelle watched him, her nerves  catapulting with anxiety at
the thought  of being  in contact  with Miami, even  through the  telephone. She
hoped  this would  not turn  into  a horrible  nightmare. There  was always  the
possibility Tobias's organization reached far beyond the Miami area. For all she
knew he could  have subsidiary operations scattered about the  country. For that
matter, Michael Matheson  could be involved with him, for  all she knew. Nothing
seemed impossible where Tobias was concerned.

Her  fear of  him made  her cautious,  and with  good reason.  She did  not feel
entirely safe with anyone.

Still, she  was doing the  only thing she could  do. She entrusted  Michael with
enough information to put Tobias in her midst  within hours if he were of a mind
to betray  her. She  watched Michael  pick up the  phone, push  a button  for an
outside  line and  then dial.  He transferred  the call  to his  speakerphone so
Rochelle could hear the conversation. The number proved to be a direct line that
put him straight through to Bentley Harrison.

Michael identified himself, and said, “I'm  calling in reference to an account
in my bank, Mr. Bentley, of which you are the executor.”

“What about  it?” Bentley asked  dryly, and  one could almost  visualize him
suddenly sitting up straighter in his chair, leaning forward attentively.

“The young woman whose name is on the  account is here in my office. She would
like to access the account.”

Bentley was  quiet a moment, and  Rochelle could readily infer  he was digesting
the  information and  weighing it.  “Let me  speak with  her,” he  demanded,
needing confirmation that the call was indeed from whom the man said he was.

“Uncle Bentley?” She could hear him let out a relieved sigh.

“Are you all right, honey?”

The sound of his voice brought a rush of melancholy and an overwhelming flood of
sadness. “I'm safe, Uncle Bentley,” she said shakily.

“Sweetheart, is it safe to speak openly to you there?”

Michael nodded his head at Rochelle.





“Its  okay, Uncle  Bentley,  there's just  Mr. Matheson  and  me here.”  She
tensed, knowing some traumatic news was about to be delivered to her. She sucked
in a deep breath of air.

“Sweetheart, things have  reached a bad state of affairs  here in Miami. Under
no circumstance must you  let anyone else know where you  are residing. It would
be  highly dangerous.  Your husband  has half  of Miami  searching for  you. The
newspaper  got wind  of your  disappearance and  I understand  Tobias has  hired
several private  detectives to find  you. The last I  heard, the police  may get
involved. You know he  has henchmen in the police department.  The time may come
when you might need to disappear again.”

Michael glanced  at Rochelle, enlightenment  dawning fully now on  how desperate
her  situation  was.  It  was  easy  enough, earlier,  to  think  she  might  be
over-reacting. Now, he knew better. She  was running for her life. Knowing that,
took on an entirely new perspective for him. She was alone and needy, and he was
the only person in Windy Point who  knew her situation. She needed a friend just
now, and he seemed the only one available.

Rochelle tried to remain impassive, but Bentley's  news brought on a new wave of
misgivings, her  face contorting  into an  expression of  raw emotion.  Her eyes
flooded with reflected green pools of water  and her lips quivered softly as she
ground her teeth together trying to control  it. Taking a tissue from her purse,
she wiped away the moisture before  it spilled down her cheeks. “I understand,
Uncle Bentley.”

“What do you need from me, honey?”

“Mr. Matheson will tell you.”

“Mr. Bentley,  a large amount  of money was put  in safety deposit  boxes both
here and in Miami. I need to know the disposition of that money before I can put
it in  an account.  I will also  need documentation from  you, the  executor, to
enable her to access her established account.”

“The money is clean,  taxes have been paid, and I  have documentation to prove
it. I can fax you all the information you'll need.”

Michael gave him his fax number.

“It'll be forthcoming,” he said, stringing out a noticeable pause.

“Mr. Matheson, her father placed great stock in your friendship…”

“Sir, I am not who you think I am,” Michael interrupted. “My father, James
Matheson is dead. I am his youngest son.”

“Then I  implore you, sir, to  take every precaution with  the information you
receive. If certain persons were to  learn of her whereabouts, dire consequences
for my goddaughter could ensue.”

“I assure you, Mr. Harrison, I shall assume the same confidentiality my father
would have and give my client any help I can offer.”

“Uncle  Bentley,”  Rochelle  said  before Michael  severed  the  connection,
“please be careful. I've  never mentioned your name, but if  he found out your
connection to me, he would stop at nothing to get information from you.”

“Don't worry about me, honey. Take care  of yourself. I'll be in touch only if
I think  it's necessary.” He severed  the connection, and Michael  hung up his
phone.

Rochelle clasped her hands in her lap, her gaze aimed at one corner of Michael's
large desk, her  thoughts running rampant. Half of Miami  was searching for her,
Bentley had said. The fear that kept her neck and shoulders tense grew stronger,
and the  thought that she would  never be safe  again left her feeling  cold and
numb  inside. She  should not  be surprised  that Tobias  was arming  an all-out
search for  her. She had expected  it. Nonetheless, hearing it  from someone she
knew put it in bold perspective, leaving nothing to the imagination.





Her eyes turned  to deep pools as she  raised her head to stare  across the desk
at  her  benefactor.  Her  quivering  chin magnified  her  strong  emotions  and
vulnerability.  She swallowed  several times,  trying  to bite  back the  tears,
wondering if she would ever feel safe  again. For the past several days, she had
been living  in a  vacuum, her  emotions held  tightly in  check. Now  they came
flooding  forth as  if from  a broken  damn, boiling  over in  an outpouring  of
weeping.

She tried choking back the sound of  her sobs, even muffling them with a tissue,
until the effort became too great.

Michael  came out  of  his  chair, suddenly  experiencing  a  terrible sense  of
helplessness. Female tears had a way of doing that to him.

He had never built  a resistance against their impact. He  moved around his desk
next to her chair, as she fought to regain control.

Gently, he placed his hand upon her shoulder and felt her tense at his touch. He
kept  his hand  there, pressing  gentle,  soothing caresses  across her  wracked
shoulders. He gave her his handkerchief,  and she dabbed frantically at her damp
face and moist eyes.

With Michael's hand  gently caressing her shoulder, his  masculine body standing
next to her with the faint smell  of spice teasing her nostrils brought her back
to awareness. She fought to regain control. When she raised her head again, only
her  wet  eyes  and  red-blotched  cheeks  betrayed  the  emotional  scene  just
displayed.  She raised  her lovely  chin, exposing  her ivory  throat while  dry
little sniffles caused her chest to heave.

“I'm   sorry   for   my    emotional   outburst.   Hearing   Uncle   Bentley's
voice…well…things  just caught  up with  me.” Her  pose was  graceful, her
manner gracious, her attitude regal, but an underlying sadness spread across her
features. Five years  of pain and mental  distress was a long time  to bottle up
one's cares,  but until  she and  Tobias were divorced,  and their  ties severed
altogether, there would be no peace for her.





“I  assure  you,  an apology  isn't  necessary.  I  think  I am  beginning  to
understand your situation. I don't admit to understanding how you must feel, but
for what it's worth, I want you to know I'll help anyway I can.”

Almost immediately, he wondered at what he might be up against, getting involved
in a  domestic situation that boded  threat and danger. Whoever  was looking for
Rochelle obviously  had powerful  connections to have  friends, or  henchmen, as
Bentley called  them, in  the police department.  Nevertheless, Michael  was now
committed, not only to helping her, but also to a growing infatuation. Like most
bachelors still  in their testosterone  prime, he  wasn't exactly immune  to the
magnetism of a beautiful woman.

She  sat straight  in her  chair, like  a queen  on a  throne, her  control soon
restored. “If you don't  mind, I'm ready to continue with  whatever we need to
do,” she said, her voice still a bit shaky.

“Can  I get  you  something?” Michael  asked, admiring  the  way she  forced
herself to bounce back from despondency.

“No thank  you. I'd  really like to  finish what I  need to  do here so  I can
attend to other matters.”

He went to a side door opening into an adjoining room containing a big executive
table with more than a dozen chairs. He motioned Rochelle to follow him. Setting
the duffel  bag on the table,  he pulled out a  chair for her, and  handed her a
yellow pad  with several sharpened  pencils. An adding  machine sat in  front of
her. He thrust his  hands aloft in quiet supplication. “I  can't help you with
this. You have to fill out the deposit slip.”

Rochelle gave  a noticeable sigh, opening  the duffel bag and  removing her bra,
panties, a wrinkled suit, and sneakers  with socks stuffed in them. Embarrassed,
she scrambled to unpack the money so  she could stuff the clothing items back in
the bag.





“Thank  you for  your  help. I  apologize  for  having to  involve  you in  my
affairs,” she said casting a cautious glance toward him.

“Why is that?” Michael  asked. At least for the moment,  he was undaunted by
any risks her situation might present.

“You heard what Uncle Bentley said. There will be no end to the search for me.
There could be danger  involved in even knowing me, and  I feel a responsibility
to tell you that.”

“I don't  understand. Why  is he so  intent upon finding  you? Do  you possess
information that could cause problems for him?”

“No, he  has been  careful not  to expose me  to anything  that could  be used
against him. It isn't that  at all. It is a matter of ego  and a need to control
what he owns. I belong to him—or so he thinks.”

“I take it you're speaking of your husband?”

She nodded her head in reply.

“I  shall  consider  myself  adequately   warned.  Now,  I  suggest  you  stop
worrying,” he said gently, and left her to count her money.





Chapter Eleven


Bentley Harrison was as good as his  word. He faxed the requested documents soon
after Michael's phone call. Michael perused  them carefully, saw they were valid
and in  order, giving Miss  Rochelle Rathbone access to  a great deal  of money.
Added to  what she  brought with  her, she  was a  very wealthy  woman. Whatever
worries she might be plagued with, she would never have to worry about financial
security.

Enjoying the comfort of his chair, Michael  thought about his life. Each new day
became much like  all the ones past, revolving around  a dull routine, requiring
daily phone calls, answering questions from staff, signing documents, along with
all the  other professional requirements of  a bank president. His  daily boring
lifestyle reminded  him of  how much he  hated banking. He  was born  wanting to
create things, always enjoying any activity  involving his hands. Loving to draw
when he  was a  kid, he finally  started drawing houses  and buildings  and soon
discovered  his calling.  He  finished high  school, went  away  to college  and
trained for a career in architecture.

With his new degree  in hand, he took a few jobs  with some architectural firms,
finally deciding to  go out on his own  when his name and work  became a calling
card capable of drawing clients on  the merits of several beautiful buildings he
designed. San Francisco was the base  where his success began and spiraled—and
crashed.

His success made  him complacent, never dreaming that  circumstances would throw
him a left-hook and he would end up wearing an uncomfortable business suit every
day to a job he despised.

Michael once heard or read somewhere  the words emotionally deprived, and he had
never thought  much about the  meaning until  Rochelle Rathbone walked  into his
office. Now,  glancing toward the door  that separated them, he  understood what
the term meant. It adequately described the outcome of his life since becoming a
banker. Sitting in the bank day after day, and cut off from everything that ever
meant anything to him, with nothing to  look forward to except more of the same,
his life quickly settled into a state of anesthesia, a numbness that allowed him
to interact with the demands required of him like a programmed machine.

Then Rochelle stepped across the threshold of his office door, jump-starting the
adrenaline  inside him,  presenting a  vision of  stature and  beauty worthy  of
stimulating feelings  he thought  were dead.  With flaming  gold mane  framing a
delicate and  sensitive face, and  skin begging for the  touch of a  man's lips,
everything about  her stimulated  some inherent need.  She provided  a wonderful
diversion from the routine and boredom  continuously draining away his life like
a  missing plug.  Her sudden  presence, from  beyond the  borders of  his small,
confining environment, made him realize how bottled up his life had become.

Following the deaths of his father and stepmother, when his brother got the hell
away as  fast as he could,  the bank became Michael's  responsibility whether he
wanted it or  not. Somebody had to  do it, and since his  lazy-assed brother had
other plans, Michael did not have much choice. The board of directors could have
appointed someone  else, he supposed, but  by then, his life  had undergone such
overwhelming trauma, he stopped caring. He watched his career and dreams fall by
the wayside as he turned to banking.

Banker's  hours  provided him  extra  free  time, which  he  found  ways to  use
effectively. He built  his own house, a major accomplishment  he took tremendous
pride in, since there  was nothing else to inspire pride. In  the empty hours of
idleness, he also dated  a few females, failing to develop  an attachment to any
of them. Sometimes he wondered what in the hell was wrong with him that he could
not get excited about  any of the women he met. He supposed  it had something to
do with  the mentality of small-town  girls growing up, getting  married, having
babies,  and then  raising their  babies to  start the  process all  over again.
Something  seemed to  be missing  in such  a lifestyle  that presented  the same
boring outlook that his banking position did.

Michael  spent more  time with  Caroline  than anyone  else, and  that was  only
because Caroline  aggressively pursued him.  Left up  to him, he  probably never
would have gone out with her again  following their first date. She was not what
he wanted in a woman.





She was pretty, but  her other attributes were sadly lacking.  The fact that she
aggressively made herself available to him in bed created a sort of open meeting
ground  between them.  Caroline  was  the one  who  planned  all their  intimate
get-togethers. She offered, and he  took. It proved an uncomplicated arrangement
until she began reaching for something more permanent.

The first time  she casually mentioned marriage, he found  himself reacting with
shock, never suspecting  she might put greater significance  on the relationship
than  what he  did. As  far as  he was  concerned, they  were simply  two people
passing time together.  She did the pursuing, acting as  though she knew nothing
permanent existed  between them. Her  mention of  marriage, however, was  a cold
awakening, like ice water dashed in his face.

“Caroline, I'm sorry, but you've misjudged things between us.

Marriage is the farthest thing from my mind.  I think we need to end this before
anyone gets hurt.” He was gentle but blunt.

She gave  no argument, letting his  statement go in  one ear and out  the other.
Things continued  between them as before.  She was the pursuer,  he the pursued.
Michael knew,  however, beneath Caroline's  subtleness, she hoped to  change his
mind. He also knew that was not going to happen.

Michael began thinking there was something wrong with him.

Out of  all the  women he  had dated,  some very  worthy candidates  for serious
relationships, he always found something lacking in them.

His detachment from any kind of emotional involvement left him with an emptiness
that seemed to gnaw at him constantly. Only when he actively dealt with projects
using his hands, such as building his house, did he find meaning in his life. It
also  kept  his  mind from  bouncing  around  in  his  head with  all  his  many
dissatisfactions following the trauma that sent him to jail.





He glanced  toward the door  of the conference  room where Rochelle  counted her
money, listening, and thinking he heard sounds from within. With that much money
to count, she would probably remain on task for some time.

Leaving  his chair  and office,  he took  a leisurely  stroll through  the bank,
greeting patrons, being available to employees  who needed to ask him something,
mostly  just  killing  time.  Since  Rochelle Rathbone  was  the  most  dramatic
interruption in his life  for many months, he kept thinking  of her lovely face,
the bouncy auburn-gold curls, the tall, petite figure with the shapely legs, and
the deep fear flickering in her green eyes.

Letting his thoughts run an unguided course, Michael's imagination took over. He
could visualize Rochelle dressed in a long slinky gown, her hair piled on top of
her  head, diamonds  at her  throat and  ears. Then  flicking to  another scene,
superimposed with  lascivious visions, he imagined  her dressed in a  black lace
see-through negligee, her  long hair falling about her  smooth velvety shoulders
like polished silk.

Michael shook  his head  to clear  it, feeling  a terrible  need for  a dramatic
change in his  lifestyle. He was living  too much in his  imagination instead of
actively making memories he could look back on  when he was too old to do little
else.

He went across the street, lingered over  a cup of coffee, exchanged a few words
with the proprietor, and then sauntered back to his office. He continued reading
the  morning paper,  put aside  earlier upon  Rochelle's arrival.  The afternoon
moved on, the clock on his wall pushing toward late afternoon.

Finally, putting the  paper aside, which he could not  concentrate on anyhow, he
tapped lightly on  the door to the  adjoining room. He pushed the  door open and
peeked through the opening.





The money lay in stacks, and Rochelle's head rested in her arms upon the table.

He walked quietly over to her and touched her shoulder. Her head snapped up with
a jerk, and for a moment, she glanced about wildly with red, sleepy eyes.

“Oh!”  she exclaimed  when she  saw him,  recalling where  she was,  looking
drugged from sleep.

“I'm sorry. I did not mean to startle you. Are you finished?”

She took a minute to get her bearings, looking about tiredly. “I think I am. I
counted it twice  and ended up with  the same figure both times.  The stacks are
recorded here,” she said handing him  the yellow pad. Thereupon, she indicated
where her head was resting when he came in. “I'm sorry, I was so tired…”

“No  problem. You'll  need  to fill  out  these,” he  said,  handing her  an
application for a checking account and savings account, and a deposit slip taken
from a small table against the wall.

Reaching inside the thick manila envelope, she took out the withdrawal slips she
had saved. Handing them to him, she said, “I forgot to give you these.”

She filled out the deposit slip, wrote  in a seven figure amount that would have
had anyone else  bouncing off the walls  with excitement. With her,  it seemed a
matter of routine as she finished the  deposit slip and handed it to Michael. If
she experienced awe  of anything, it certainly was not  money. Obviously used to
having whatever  amount she needed at  her fingertips, she took  it for granted.
Michael did not. This  amount of money deposited in his bank was  a boon for his
establishment. Small town  banks were not usually so lucky  to have such wealthy
clients.

On the small table against the wall was  a phone. Michael picked it up and asked
someone to step into the boardroom.  He expected the head teller's surprise when
she walked into the room.





Upon seeing the money  on the table in front of the young  woman closeted in the
bank  president's office  all afternoon,  the woman's  mouth fell  open and  she
gasped  aloud. “Did  someone  rob a  bank?” she  blurted  out, looking  from
Michael to the attractive woman sitting at  the table. When her boss cleared his
throat, she  began apologizing profusely for  her blunder. “I'm sorry,  sir, I
didn't mean that.”

“Nell, take care of  this for me. Here's the deposit  slip and the information
to open a checking and savings account.”

Nell looked  at the  deposit slip,  her eyes growing  extremely large.  Then she
looked at Michael as though he had lost his mind.

“A checking and savings account?” No one  in his or her right mind would put
such  an amount  in a  mere savings  account. She  kept casting  furtive glances
toward the young woman who looked more tired than rich.

“This  is temporary  just  to safeguard  the  cash until  she  can make  other
investments. Right now she simply wants it in a safe place.”

“Very well,” Nell  said with raised brows,  taking charge of what  had to be
done.

Pulling Nell aside he told her, “This transaction is to be treated by all bank
employees  as completely  confidential. Miss  Rathbone's  name is  not to  touch
anyone's lips  outside this bank or  outside business. Anyone choosing  to break
that confidence will deal with me. Pass that on for me.”

“Yes, sir,” she replied, picking up the phone to call someone to help her.

“Are we  finished?” Rochelle rose  from her chair, stretching  her shoulders
and back.

Michael  escorted  her  back  to  his  office and  closed  the  door  on  Nell's
inquisitive gaze. “We'll wait for your  receipt and temporary checks, and then
I'll take you to the motel just up the street.”





He thought rather indelicately  of inviting her home with him  as his guest, but
he knew that was stretching his  business clientele relationship too far. He was
just as aware  that his interest was  not due simply to being  a Good Samaritan.
His male urges had been in overdrive since the moment he had seen her.

“I need to do a bit of shopping first,” Rochelle said, brushing the wrinkles
from her skirt, a tired, dejected dullness  in her green eyes. She was recalling
her beautiful  clothes hanging in  her closet  in Miami, the  expensive lingerie
filling the drawers in her dressing room.  Now the only thing she owned were the
clothes she wore, and the items in the duffel bag.

“What sort of things?  You will not find a large selection  in the shops here.
Perhaps you'd prefer to go into Bozeman.” He was well aware he was offering to
take her. She knew it, too.

“I just need some jeans and shirts.”

“I know just the place. I can take you there while we wait.”

“I've already taken so much of your time.  Why don't you just point the way to
me?”

Michael  sensed a  dismissive tone  in  her voice,  and  was not  ready for  her
dismissal.  “My time  is  your time.  I  will be  glad to  walk  with you  and
introduce you to the proprietress. It's the  least I can do since you'll need to
come back here for your receipts and checks.”

Rochelle gave him a tired smile and nodded.

Michael touched the tip of his fingers to  her back and guided her from the bank
while dozens  of pairs of eyes  watched their progress. The  old gossiping grape
vine was coming alive, as it had not done for some time.

Outside, a playful spring breeze lifted  Rochelle's hair. A bank of fluffy white
clouds  floating by  allowed the  sun to  shine brightly  through the  expanding
opening. Michael  offered Rochelle  the crook  of his elbow  and she  tucked her
fingers in  it unabashedly.  The physical  contact was  oddly pleasant.  She was
aware the gesture was personal, sensing Michael's  interest in her in the way he
looked at her.

“A friend of  mine has a shop where  I think you'll find what  you need,” he
told her, covering her  fingers in the crook of his elbow with  a dark hand that
seemed weathered compared to the rest of him.

Walking,  they came  to a  small women's  shop down  the street  from the  bank,
diagonally across from the restaurant. Michael  opened the door and they stepped
inside where he introduced Rochelle to his old friend.

“Hi, Mabel, I've  brought you a customer,” he said,  his manner friendly and
personable.

Mabel raised  thick brows  over slightly  sagging lids. “It's  nice of  you to
bring me a customer,  Mikey. Who do we have here?” She  looked at Rochelle the
way one might  inspect a horse. She  even turned Rochelle around in  a circle to
complete her inspection, forcing Michael to step to one side.

“Rochelle,  meet Mabel,”  he said  casually, smiling  tolerantly at  Mabel's
familiarity. With introductions out of the way,  he took a chair in front of the
store and browsed through a magazine found on a table.

“It's nice to meet you, Mabel,” Rochelle said, extending her small hand.

Mabel's eyebrows went up  an inch as she touched a slightly  damp palm. This one
had manners.  She wondered where  Michael found her.  “It's nice to  meet you,
too, Sweetpea. What can I do for you?”

Mabel was slightly  overweight, had graying black hair, and  wore no makeup. Her
face was extremely pretty. Her colorful clothing fit nicely and complemented her
pretty face.

“I'd like some jeans, a shirt, and lingerie.”





Mabel showed  Rochelle the racks of  clothing containing her size,  and Rochelle
wasted no time gathering up the items she needed. When she piled them all on the
counter, Mabel turned a quizzical eye upon her.

“Wouldn't you like to try them on, Sweetie? They may not fit, you know.”

“I'm sure they'll do nicely,” Rochelle  said, taking money from her purse to
pay for the items. She was glad  she remembered to keep a generous amount before
depositing the rest. She would not need to start using checks until she got into
much larger purchases. She put three single Hundred Dollar bills on the counter.

Mabel  looked at  the  bills, then  at  Rochelle. She  raised  her brows  again.
“Sweetpea, you're not in  New York City now. Less than half  of that will more
than pay for what you're buying.”

Michael looked up from his magazine, listening.

Rochelle looked startled by the remark and pulled back one of the bills.

Mabel rang up  the purchases and counted  out the change. “A  word of warning,
Sweetpea,  you shouldn't  go flashing  those hundreds  around so  freely. People
around here  aren't used to  seeing that much  money.” She looked  at Michael.
“If she's banking with you, Michael,  you should advise her more carefully,”
she cautioned.

“Your advice is well taken, Mabel,”  Michael said shortly, as Mabel gave him
a quizzical stare and  mentally tried to figure out what was  going on with this
gorgeous redhead and Michael.

“Thank you,” Rochelle  said, dropping the bills and coins  in her purse. She
took the  bag of  apparel and  headed toward  the door  with Michael  falling in
beside her. Her world  seemed so haphazard in this strange  little town. She was
out of  her element, a lonely,  lost creature without a  foundation beneath her.
Depression hit her like a door slamming in her face.





“Is there anything else you need?” Michael asked before turning the way they
came.

“No, thank you. This should do nicely until I have more time to shop. Tomorrow
I will need to purchase a car and go house hunting.

Are there any properties you know of that are for sale?” she inquired, walking
along beside him while he carried her packages.

“What exactly are you looking for?”

“Oh, I don't know;  maybe something roomy, with a bit of land  around it, in a
good location, and preferably close to the interstate.”

Her meaning  was clear.  She did not  want to be  in confined  spaces preventing
escape if the  need arose. “I'm sure  our local realtor can help  you. I don't
suppose you'd be interested in renting instead of buying?”

“No, I don't think I'd like dealing with landlords. I have heard stories about
how  the plumbing  can go  bad, or  roofs spring  leaks, and  a number  of other
inconveniences that can take days to repair.

I'd rather be in charge of my own repairs.”

“Then I'll  be glad  to introduce  you tomorrow to  Mr. Shipley,  the realtor.
Insofar as a car  is concerned, I believe you will want to  go into Bozeman. Our
local car dealer only sells used models. What kind of car interests you?”

“I thought I'd like to look around a bit,” she replied.

“Good idea,” Michael told her. “I'll be glad to take you.”

She  showed surprise.  “You've  been more  than  kind as  it  is,” she  said
earnestly, thinking she needed to get her feet wet on her own.

This was the first  time she was in a position of having  to look after herself.
While it  was preferable  having Michael,  or anyone at  all, accompany  her, it
would be too easy  to fall into the habit of depending  upon him. As frightening
as this new life was to her, she needed to learn how to manage on her own.





They went  back to the bank,  retrieved the paperwork and  temporary checks from
Nell, and then Michael marched Rochelle back out to his car.

“Mr. Matheson…”

“Michael,” he reminded her.

“Michael, you're  really very kind,  but I should  probably get used  to doing
things for myself.”

He backed out of  the parking space and drove away  before answering. “And you
shall, but it's  only good business sense  to treat a valued  client with utmost
courtesy,” he said, lightly disposing of the idea of a more personal reason.

“But I mustn't  take you from your work.  The motel isn't so far  away I can't
walk, and I can take a cab to the city for a car.”

“Rochelle, have  you ever bought a  car before?” he asked  with questionable
doubt.

“No, as  a matter of fact  I am quickly  realizing there are many  things I've
never done,” she replied in bewilderment.

Dejection hung  heavy in her  voice, and  Michael had the  urge to wrap  his arm
about her  shoulders and  hold her until  some of his  strength flowed  into her
fragile  limbs. He  was attracted  to her  and had  no qualms  about getting  in
deeper.  “If you  go alone  to buy  a car,  you will  most likely  pay several
thousand dollars more than  the overall value. Those car salesmen  love to see a
woman coming. If I'm with you, you'll get a better deal.”

“Then I suppose I should accept  your generosity. However, please don't let me
become  a burden.  Since I'm  going  to be  on my  own,  I'd best  learn how  to
manage.”

“You'll be fine, Rochelle,” he soothed in  a kind voice, pulling up in front
of the motel office. “Consider yourself among friends.

These people here are close, friendly, and willing to help each other.

You will have many friends in no time I  am sure. Just do not expect too much of
yourself too soon. It can't be easy starting over in a new place.”

“That's probably good advice,” she said as  he climbed from the car and came
around to open her car door.

He took her inside  and spoke to the desk clerk. “George, this  is a friend of
mine. She needs one of your cleanest and best rooms.”

“All our rooms  are clean and best,  Michael. But I'll see the  little lady is
comfortable.” He  whipped out a register  slip. “Just sign your  name,” he
said, pushing the piece of paper toward her.

Rochelle quickly  glanced toward Michael,  wishing she did  not have to  put her
name to any paper. He seemed to  understand her reluctance, and took the pen and
signed his own name. George handed him the key.

“I'll see her to her room, but keep an eye out for her, will you?

She's not used to being alone.”

“We'll take good care of her,  Michael.” George told him nicely, letting his
eyes wander appreciatively over a slender, shapely figure.

Back in the car,  Michael drove through the lot and parked in  front of the unit
that matched  the number on  the key. With Rochelle's  bag of purchases  and the
nearly empty duffel bag  clutched to his chest, he unlocked  the motel door with
his other hand,  and handed Rochelle the  key. The room smelled  airy and clean,
the bedding freshly  laundered, and he mentally applauded George  for airing the
units out every day when they weren't in use.

Touching Rochelle's shoulder,  he nudged her across the  threshold and followed,
placing her things on the bed.

“Will you be okay here?”

“I'm sure I'll be  just fine. The bed looks comfortable. Sleep  is what I need
just now.”

“Let me get you some ice,” Michael  said quickly, picking up the plastic ice
bucket  and heading  toward  the ice  machine.  She was  probably  used to  room
service, and she would not find it too accommodating here where they had no such
thing.

When he entered  the room, the water  in the shower was running.  She had kicked
off her shoes, and  was putting her purchases on hangers. He  put the ice bucket
back in its place. Then he wrote his  home and office number down for her. “If
you need anything  at all,” he said,  handing her the piece  of paper, “just
call me.”

Her look  at him was very  intense, but kind.  Then she said softly,  “I will.
Thank you so  much.” She dredged up a friendly  smile despite the overwhelming
feeling of mounting  depression at seeing the departing back  of the only person
she knew.

“Would you consider having  a late supper with me, say  about eight? That will
give you some  time to sleep.” He  was patronizing her, but she  was the first
interesting female  he had encountered  since leaving  San Francisco and  he was
enjoying every minute of it.

“I'm really not sure I'll be up to going out,” she stated apologetically.

“Why don't I call you about seven thirty, and if you're up to it, I'll stop by
for you. We can go for fast food, or I can take you to a little steak house I go
to frequently not far from here.”

“I really don't have the appropriate clothing for a dinner engagement.”

“Jeans and shirt are  fine in most places around here.  Most people wear about
anything they're comfortable in.”

“Except bankers,” she teased lightly, gently raking her eyes up and down his
gray suit. He was a fine looking  man, she thought. His dark mane of black-brown
hair, his chiseled  features, his proud chin,  and a smooth brow  that hinted at
faint worry lines,  all seemed to reflect a responsible  maturity. His lips drew
her attention, and  she wondered how many women those  lips had kissed, wondered
if he had been married, engaged, or simply unattached by choice.

“This is my banking uniform,” he answered,  smiling at the timid grin on her
lips. “I'll call  you, say around seven-thirty.” He left  quickly before she
could counter his statement.

Rochelle locked  the door  and put on  the night chain,  leaning against  it for
several seconds, rethinking  her activities since stepping off the  bus in Windy
Point. Wherever her thoughts wandered to,  they always came back to and centered
on Michael. He was interested in her and made no bones about his intention to be
with her.

It was strange,  she thought now, how  just a few hours earlier  she was certain
she would never desire another man's company.

Now, here she was thinking how fortunate  she was to have Michael in her corner.
She knew she needed someone, a friend, and Michael was the only person she knew.

She turned on the television, stripped off all her clothing and climbed into the
shower. Her thoughts flitted to Miami,  to Tobias, and to the brief conversation
with Bentley Harrison. Desolation  seemed to wash over her in  the warm spray of
water flowing upon  her. Thinking of yesterday was too  painful; thinking of the
moment seemed futile, and  tomorrow seemed only a void. She  had nothing to live
for and nothing to look forward to in her future.

An explosion  of tears  burst forth  and she slid  down the  shower wall  on her
haunches, the water pouring  over her head and washing the  salty tears down the
drain.

With  her thoughts  trailing back  to  Miami, she  could imagine  the anger  and
furiousness felt by Tobias. He would be in a killing mood, and she believed that
if he ever  got his hands on her  he would follow through on his  threat to kill
her.

“Oh, God, help me,” she cried in despair.





Chapter Twelve


Michael decided  against going back  to the bank.  Zimmerman would close  up for
him, and probably wonder what was going on.

He had  spent most of  the day with  a beautiful woman  who knew nothing  of the
amount of  interest she had  stirred up  in the little  town of Windy  Point. By
morning every man, woman  and child for miles around would know  there was a new
face in town,  and that he had patronized  her like a bull in  heat. While small
towns had their good points, they, nevertheless, could make or break anyone with
gossip.

Nothing happened  in Windy Point that  didn't receive its share  of speculation,
which would  then be  analyzed time and  again, passed on  to anyone  willing to
listen, discussed extensively, and followed  by every conceivable opinion, until
the first  story told  had digressed  to an  entirely different  story. Everyone
minded everyone else's business,  and he would have to be careful  not to let it
touch Rochelle in view of her need for privacy.

He was purposely overzealous, he supposed, so tired of his stick-in-the-mud life
that Rochelle was the  best diversion since he left San  Francisco. Flashes of a
dangerous man pursuing Rochelle  caused him to curse his lack  of good sense for
becoming involved with someone who was  trouble waiting to happen. She could not
run forever. The time would come when her past would catch up with her.

What then?

If Michael  was smart,  he thought,  he would  simply welcome  her as  a banking
client,  show her  courtesy  when their  paths  crossed, and  go  about his  own
affairs. The  problem was his  affairs were so  run-of-the-mill he might  die of
boredom  if he  didn't take  advantage of  nearly any  diversion that  presented
itself. Rochelle was the only positive distraction to hit Windy Point in years.

She was glamorous, beautiful, and carried  herself like a gracious lady. When he
looked at the soft  creamy texture of her skin, he could not  help but wonder at
the joy in  touching his lips to  her flesh, warming her blood  with his kisses,
tasting  her lips,  tantalizing  the woman  in  her until  her  response to  him
became instantaneous  and complete. His  manhood gave  bold reply to  his erotic
ruminations reminding him he  had not had a surge of passion such  as this in so
long he was beginning to doubt his own libido.

After he parked his  car on his driveway, and went inside  his house, he glanced
about, wondering what  he could occupy his time with  until seven-thirty. He put
on  an old  pair of  jeans and  a  polo shirt,  turning on  the television,  and
spreading out  comfortably upon the sofa.  Just starting to relax  and doze, his
phone  began ringing,  startling  him  awake. Turning  down  the  volume on  the
television, he  picked up  the phone.  “Hello,” he said,  hoping it  was not
Caroline.

“Michael,  what happened  to you?”  Caroline's voice  came through  loud and
clear, and Michael gave a silent groan.

“What do you mean?” he asked evasively, knowing ahead of time what she would
say.

“I mean you left the bank and didn't come back to lock up.

Zimmerman had to  do it. I waited  for you, thinking you would  come back. Where
did you go?”

“I  had other  business to  attend to,”  he lied,  wanting to  end the  call
quickly. “Caroline, you caught me right in  the middle of something. I have to
go.”

“Michael! Did you forget what day this  is? This is our evening to have dinner
together. What time will you pick me up?”





“Oh,  I  forgot,” he  said,  and  really  did  forget with  everything  else
happening. “I'm sorry, Caroline, but I won't be able to make it tonight.”

“This doesn't have something to do with  that red headed woman who was in your
bank today, does it?” She didn't just ask, she demanded to know.

Damn it, he thought, word had gotten  around all ready. Caroline would pitch one
of her temperamental fits  if she learned he was taking  Rochelle out to dinner.
Still, maybe  that was just the  thing to get  her angry enough to  quit calling
him, he thought. Nothing but good manners,  thus far, had kept him from outright
telling her to take a hike.

Michael answered Caroline's question, and he  could hear the steam sizzling from
her nostrils while she  listened. “The lady you mentioned is  a bank client. I
showed her the same courtesy I might show to anyone else.”

It was a lie. While  he might buy a client a cup of  coffee, he never once tried
to make himself indispensable the way he had with Rochelle.

“Does that courtesy include taking her for coffee, taking her to Mabel's shop,
waiting while she made purchases, and then taking her to the local motel?” Her
voice was as crisp as a raw  cucumber, and obviously, she was boiling with anger
and jealousy.

“Caroline, I'm not  going to discuss this  with you. All you want  is to fight
about it, and frankly, I am not in the mood. I also need to remind you that I am
not answerable to you. I do what I choose.”

“Damn you, Michael! I  have not given you all these months of  my life just to
have you turn to  some other woman. You owe me more than  that. Did you think my
going to bed with  you was a freebie? Did you think I  enjoyed you pawing me all
over? I was doing it to make you happy, and now what do I get in return?”





“Caroline…” he started to say, but she cut him off.

“I'm not going to stand by while  you court your little red headed bitch. I'll
scratch her damn eyes out if I have to!” She slammed down the receiver.

Michael put the phone down and propped his head in his hands.

What in the hell had he ever seen in Caroline? She was bitchy, temperamental and
demanding. Now,  she had just thrown  the ultimate criticism in  his face, their
sex life.  She spoke of it  as though he  forced her, even though  she initiated
every sexual encounter—

even if  he was receptive. Her  statement, accusing him of  pawing her, suddenly
left him feeling cold and disgusted. He  should have broken it off with her long
ago. It was something that needed doing.



TURNING THE TELEVISION SOUND up again, Michael lay there watching the flickering
scenes without registering any of it.

Caroline's phone call left his mind lying in a deep quagmire of dissatisfaction.
Before his father's death, he knew where he  wanted to go, what he wanted to do,
what he wanted to  be. All that changed when he inherited  the job of overseeing
his  father's bank.  His  brother wisely  reached  out for  what  he wanted.  He
invested his  inheritance from  his father  in real  estate, finally  becoming a
realtor.

He also opened  a traveling agency, run  by his wife. The last  Michael heard of
him, he was still looking into other investments.

Why hadn't he taken the same initiative?

Someone else could have  managed the bank. He could have gone  in pursuit of his
dream  in the  field of  architecture  and construction.  The six  years he  had
actually spent gainfully employed in his  occupation marked the best time of his
life. Visualizing a  building growing beneath his fingertips as  he labored with
intricate detail over  the drawings gave him  purpose. He made lots  of money in
those six years,  and became earmarked to  make lots more from  the builders who
favored his work over  other architects. Being in demand for  what he loved best
fired his ambition like nothing else could.

Then  his   father  and   stepmother  died—were  murdered—and   the  ensuing
circumstances uprooted his whole life,  literally displacing him from everything
once important to him. Going into his father's bank marked the ultimate betrayal
to his dreams. He was certain it  must be his sense of responsibility to family,
which the old man drummed and instilled into his head causing him to forsake his
architectural career.  Of course,  there was  the fact that  while he  rotted in
jail, selling  out was his  only option. Stuck in  jail without bond,  his loses
rose daily, until selling was the only worthwhile alternative.

After his trial, it was too late to pick up the pieces of his life.

His last  hope evolved from the  only option available  to him, to start  at the
bottom and work his way up again.  His father's bank provided the means. He took
it over on a temporary basis at the  time, thinking to hire a replacement in the
near future.  With everything  that happened thereafter,  however, his  dream of
going back  to his architectural pursuits  faded into the background.  Hopes and
dreams merged into a kind of passive neglect.

He assuredly dug the grave and buried his life when he sold the beautiful office
building  in  San  Francisco, designed  and  built  by  him,  it standing  as  a
reflection of his  dedication and ability. He sunk his  life into that building,
encompassing debt up to  his ears. Then the jobs started  pouring in, along with
the money. All of  his hard work and effort went down the  tube after his arrest
for the murder of his father and stepmother.

What money he had left was now in investments earning interest or shares. He was
not broke by  a long shot, but he  might as well be, considering  the absence of
enjoyment in  his life. He  would gladly sink  everything he owned  into another
career in architecture if he could tear himself from the bank.

Only one  single thing held  him back, the truth  surrounding the deaths  of his
father and  stepmother. Although a  jury found  him not guilty,  his exoneration
would never be complete until he knew who killed them.



MICHAEL MUST HAVE DOZED. When he opened  his eyes, distracted by some loud noise
on television, the clock blinked seven-fifteen, almost time to call Rochelle. He
crawled off the sofa, heading for the bathroom where he showered, shaved, bushed
his teeth, and combed his hair. He went  to his room, pulled on Levi's, a shirt,
and boots. He lifted the phone and called her.

Her  voice, sounding  drugged  by  recent sleep,  was  barely  audible when  she
answered.

“Rochelle?” he said softly and waited for an answer.

“Yes?” she murmured through what sounded like a yawn.

“This is Michael. Shall I pick you up for dinner?” As sleepy as she sounded,
he was sure she would say no.

“Yes, I'm famished.”

“Then I'll  see you in a  little while,” he said,  and hung up the  phone, a
rare  electrical charge  of  pleasure  cascading through  his  torso and  limbs,
growing into honest excitement. He hadn't felt such a rush of anticipation since
before his incarceration.

Taking only a few minutes to drive there, Michael rapped softly on the door, and
then waited. Silence greeted him. He  rapped again, this time louder, impatience
growing. Finally,  the door opened  just a crack. The  night chain was  still in
place.

“Michael, is that you?” she inquired, peeking through the opening, her voice
still groggy with the last dredges of sleep.

“Yes, it's me, Rochelle.” The sound of  her voice made him eager, anxious to
see her.

She pushed the door  closed and unhooked the chain. After  opening the door, she
lifted her  fist to  her eyes, rubbing  them generously. She  wore a  long white
satiny nightgown, purchased  from Mabel's shop, and a loose  robe. She presented
an exact  image of  Michael's visually  concocted perceptions of  her in  a long
negligee.

Michael's gaze drank in a gorgeous figure,  it barely concealed by the gown that
flaunted warm dips and curves, while the robe gaped open. A low neckline exposed
the upper mounds of swollen breasts with a noticeable cleavage between them, the
skin creamy and soft.  The light behind her put her in  pale silhouette, and her
full head of hair, edged with auburn highlights, was slightly ruffled and mussed
to exhibit a tousled appearance that was both alluring and seductive. She exuded
a kind of magnetism Michael found fatally irresistible.

“I fell back to sleep after you  called,” she murmured, turning her back and
going to  sit on the edge  of the bed,  obviously struggling to come  awake from
emotional tiredness  rather than sleepiness. The  robe fell open on  both sides,
and the satiny smoothness of the gown shimmered against her tempting contours.

Michael closed  the door.  A nearly  overpowering urge  shook his  usual reserve
while his  arms ached  to hold her.  Her warmth and  softness beckoned  him with
alarming appeal, forcing  him to muster control over  his recalcitrant longings.
He stood watching  her, his eyes roving freely while  hers blinked awake slowly.
Leaning forward with her arms pressed  across her knees, her breast were visible
and ripe buds  protruded like tasty fruits  as her gown fell  open. Michael kept
silent, lest he disturb that heady pose  that catapulted all his senses and sent
his hormones expanding like heat molecules.





“I don't think I've ever been so tried and sleepy,” she declared, sitting up
straight again, sobering Michael's rising pulses.

“Rochelle,  perhaps you  should splash  a  bit of  water on  your face,”  he
suggested, nursing a tinge of dread that  she might change her mind and send him
away. Those peaked  breasts with tender pink rosebuds had  assaulted his senses,
and while  he knew  he could not  exercise the hormonal  urge building  by quick
degrees,  he, nevertheless,  wanted to  be  with her  to relish  his sudden  new
feeling of maleness.

They were not on the same wavelengths.

“I don't know why  I feel so tired,” she said, raising her  head to meet his
blue eyes, allowing her gaze to pass  down the length of him. She paused briefly
at his  pointed-toe boots, then her  gaze climbed back  up to his face  again, a
warm impersonal appreciation lighting her eyes.

“You look different.”

“Is that  good or bad?” he  asked in a friendly  tone that struck a  note of
familiarity and humor.

“Neither,” she replied honestly. “It's just an observation.”

Michael twisted his head about, sending her an oblique glance.

“Well,  like  I  said,  people  around   here  wear  about  anything  that  is
comfortable.”

She expelled a breathy sigh, and yawned.

“You're probably tired from being in a strange environment and being separated
from what  is familiar. I  suppose you  can compare it  to jet lag.  You'll feel
better in a day or two.”

“I hope so,” she said, rubbing her eyes again.

“I'll wet a washcloth for you,” Michael offered, moving toward the bathroom.
What he really needed was cold water splashed on his own face, after observing a
seductive angel with shimmering white satin cascading down her shapely figure.





When he returned  with the wet cloth  in his hand, Rochelle pushed  herself to a
standing position, looking like  a lovely Goddess in the long  gown and robe. He
stopped short  of her lovely visage  and stood staring  at her. She took  a step
toward him,  reaching for  the washcloth  he held  out to  her. Her  foot struck
something on  the carpet,  her shoe, and  she went flying  toward him,  head and
shoulders first.

The washcloth fell  from his hand. His  arms flew out, encircling  her after she
collided with  his chest. He held  her comfortingly, pulling her  against him, a
sudden sensation of warmth  filling his head and chest. Her  body felt good, fit
his arms  perfectly. She  was soft  everywhere he  touched, everywhere  her body
pressed against  him. Sensuous warmth seemed  to flow from her,  invading all of
him. Her  scent was fresh and  clean like fragrant  soap, and he found  his nose
nestled in  her hair,  his lips touching  the delicate skin  of her  throat. Her
thighs pressed against his while her breast crushed softly against his chest. He
felt his  manhood responding  to her  closeness, and nothing  in his  mind could
cause him to break the embrace, or control his over-active body responses.

Rochelle mentally assessed the powerful muscles  of his chest and shoulders. His
arms seemed to absorb her like a sponge. Her brain felt tingly and warm, similar
to when she had  drunk too much wine. She lay her head  against his shoulder, it
hard  and firm  against her  cheek. His  masculinity provided  a compelling  and
powerful additive that catered to some unfulfilled need inside her.

For  a  couple  of  minutes,  they remained  locked  in  each  other's  embrace.
Rochelle's arms encircled him, her palms and flayed fingers pressing against the
reflexive muscles of  his back. When she  raised her head from  his shoulder and
looked at him, words  seemed empty, even useless now. He  pushed strands of hair
from her cheek,  returning her unswerving gaze. She felt  the heated hardness of
his manhood pressed against her, it jolting some deep, inner need that had never
been satisfied,  while at the same  time drawing upon the  reluctance previously
inspired by Tobias's brutality.

The thought  of Tobias jolted  her and she stepped  away from Michael,  his hand
still clinging to her arms with a seemingly disinclination to let go.

She looked  at him beseechingly, a  deep sadness underlying what  she said next.
“I'm not me  right now, Michael,” she said softly,  tilting her head forward
bashfully. “I  can't tell you how  long it has  been since someone held  me in
comforting arms. Please don't misunderstand my response.”

“Rochelle…” Michael said, moving toward her.

She  lifted  her  hand,  the  palm  touching his  chest.  “No,  I'll  just  be
a  moment,”  she  said, stepping  past  him  to  take  her jeans,  shirt,  and
under-things from a hanger before going into the bathroom.

A small table  with two chairs stood at  the front of the room  beneath a draped
window.  Michael took  a chair,  his body  echoing deep,  pleasant feelings  and
longings.  His infatuation  was  strong  and potent.  This  beautiful girl,  who
stepped into his life at just the time  when he didn't think he could handle the
day-to-day routine any longer, was tempting some powerful emotions in his boring
life.





Chapter Thirteen


When the bathroom door opened, Michael  looked up, smiling faintly at Rochelle's
appearance. She looked  like a teenager in jeans with  the baggy T-shirt hanging
loosely over  her shoulders and breasts.  She returned his smile,  her sparkling
white teeth  glistening behind full  rosy lips. She  took her sneakers  from the
duffel bag and slid them on without socks. Rising, she took a hairbrush from the
mirrored vanity and ran  it through her hair. All the  time Michael watched her,
observing her indulgently while  the pulse throbbed at the base  of his neck and
temple.

“Your hair is gorgeous, Rochelle. I've never seen a color quite like yours?”
The  compliment exposed  his personal  thoughts, and  aired a  kind of  unspoken
understanding that  any further interaction between  them from here on  would be
personal.

She blushed, and then smiled, handling  his compliment with humor. “You should
have seen me as  a blonde,” she teased, putting down  the hairbrush and coming
to stand beside  him, her hand resting  on the chair-back. “I stuffed  it in a
trash can when I stayed overnight in Bozeman.”

Michael stood  up. “Good choice.  Blonde hair  can't compare to  that gorgeous
gold color you have. Are you ready?”

Rochelle smiled  shyly and nodded.  Their conversation had turned  personal, and
suddenly she felt like she was out on a limb.

After five  years of socializing  with a bunch  of foul-mouthed drunken  men and
petty women  who were also  drunks, while  sitting back listening  and observing
rather than talking, what did one say to a normal person on a social outing?

“Do you have your key?” he remembered  to ask before closing the door behind
them. She darted back  inside, found the key and put it  in her purse. Rejoining
him by  his car where he  held the door open,  she slid inside and  made herself
comfortable.

“George would  have let you in,  but the only  thing that upsets him  is being
awakened after he turns  in for the night.” He cranked the  car and pulled out
onto the street.

“Is he upset at the late guests who stop for the night?” Rochelle asked.





“Yes, even late guests. He thinks everyone should keep daytime hours.”

“You can tell he's lived here all his life,” Rochelle suggested, thinking of
the people she and Tobias knew who kept  late hours at night and slept in during
the morning.  “City life would  definitely upset him  with its busy  round the
clock pace.”

A lazy dazzling smile swept across  Michael's tanned face. “City life wouldn't
agree with him at all. He keeps the same hours as most other working people here
in Windy Point. Here we have an early-to-bed, early-to-rise community.”

“Are you part of the status  quo?” Rochelle asked. “Somehow you don't seem
to fit the mold of a small town banker who goes to bed at dusk and wakes up with
the sun.”

“Bad habits  are acquired easily, good  ones with more effort,”  he laughed.
“I have my  share of both as it  suits my purpose. I'm capable  of adapting to
whatever my environment requires.”

“Have you always lived here?”

“I was born here, and after high school there was college. I spent a few years
in San  Francisco, and then  came back  here to run  my father's bank  after his
death.”

“I wonder why we didn't meet that time when my folks brought me here.”

“If it  was in the  summertime, my  brother and I  were likely away  at summer
camp.”

“If I recall, I  believe it was in the summertime. Is  banking what you wanted
to do?” she asked,  watching the sensual mold of his  firm mouth, the arrogant
cut of his chin and jaw, and his compelling good looks. She knew it would be all
too easy to  become attracted to him, if  for no other reason than  the need for
human companionship.

A flicker of  seriousness crossed his features and disappeared  just as quickly.
“I had  other plans until my  father died, but  somebody had to run  the bank.
There was no one but me. What about you? Did you ever wish you could go back and
change things, live your life differently?”

She glanced out  of the car window,  seeing the small town sliding  past them as
they neared the outskirts of another small town.

“You are kidding, of course.”

“Kidding? Why do you think I'm kidding?”

“The very fact that I'm here talking to you right this minute is indicative of
my desire to totally erase my life for  the past five years. Yes, to answer your
question,  I'd like  to  change it,  but  sadly,  we don't  have  the choice  of
rectifying the past through hindsight.”

“No, we  don't, but I've known  people who dwell  on past mistakes as  if they
might reshape them somehow.”

“Do you do that Michael; try to reshape your past mistakes, I mean?”

“Aren't we all a little guilty of  doing that? I suppose I have often wondered
on the phrase,  what if. What if  I had done this,  or what if I  had done that?
Perhaps it's a  method we use to  learn how to prevent making  the same mistakes
twice.”

“Well,  I  suppose  from  that  perspective, there  might  be  some  value  in
supposition. None of us wants to suffer repeated tragedies.”

“What  tragedies  have  you  suffered,  Rochelle—or  is  that  question  too
personal?”

She took a deep breath and exhaled.  “It's personal, Michael. I don't know you
well enough to share such confidences.”

“If you knew me better, would you share them?”

“Is that one of those what if questions?”

He chuckled. “Okay, you caught me. I  am prying, so I will change the subject.
I hope you like steak. A friend of mine has a steak house with the finest steaks
found anywhere. If you don't like steaks, he also serves seafood.”





“Steak sounds great. I feel like I could eat about anything right now.”

A few  minutes later,  Michael pulled into  a jammed parking  lot below  a steak
house sign, and turned off the engine.

He reached across the seat and briefly squeezed Rochelle's hand. “I'm glad you
decided to have dinner with me,” he said before getting out of the car.

His touch  seemed entirely  personal now, Rochelle  thought; the  serious banker
image now shed, or exchanged for a more lighthearted persona.

He opened  Rochelle's car door  and took her hand,  gently pulling her  from the
seat and up against him. He needed  no encouragement as he slid both arms around
her waist, savoring  her closeness as long  as he dared before  moving back from
the car to close the door. There had been many women in his life, at college, in
San Francisco,  in Bozeman, and  locally; yet, he could  not recall any  of them
fitting quite as perfectly in his arms as Rochelle did.

His arm encircled her waist possessively and they went inside.

“Hey there, Michael, we've  missed you. I haven't seen you  in a while,” the
cashier, owner,  manager said. The man's  close examination left nothing  to the
imagination as he scrutinized Rochelle carefully.

“I've been busy. How's it going,  Ken?” Michael asked, reaching out his hand
in greeting.

“Got  a full  house  tonight, so  I can't  complain,”  Ken replied,  shaking
Michael's hand, while he stared at Rochelle. “Who's your friend?”

“This  is Chelle,”  Michael said,  his left  hand giving  a tiny  squeeze to
Rochelle's waist.

“Nice to  meet you, Chelle,”  Ken said,  glancing from Rochelle  to Michael,
tempted to ask where he found such a delectable doll.





He held  his tongue,  however, knowing  that gossip would  soon provide  him the
information sought.  He, among others, had  advised Michael many times  to ditch
Caroline. She was not right for him, never had been, and never would be.

His bear-like  paw squeezed  Rochelle's hand lightly  and released  it. Rochelle
gave him  a warm  smile, aware  that Michael's  arm felt  wonderfully protective
about her.

She  liked  the feel  of  his  arms,  the touch  of  his  hands, them  warm  and
reassuring. She breathed  deeply of Michael's spicy scent, laying  her palm over
his hand at  her waist. The strong  muscular arms bulging against  the fabric of
his shirtsleeves sparked  an intimate thrill that raced  along Rochelle's spine.
It's just relief at having a friend  in a strange place, she assured herself. To
dare imagine her feelings might be more enterprising would be preposterous after
the hell she had suffered with Tobias.

“Do you have an  empty table for us, Ken?” Michael  asked, glancing over the
crowded room of  diners, seeing people he  knew. It dawned on  him that Caroline
and everyone  in town  would know  about his dinner  companion by  tomorrow. The
grapevine of gossipers never rested.

“I believe  one table is vacant.  Give them a minute  to clear it and  you can
seat yourself. It's over there in that  dark little corner.” He gave Michael a
sly grin and winked.

Rochelle pretended not to notice.

When the  waiter finished clearing  the table, Michael escorted  Rochelle across
the noisy,  crowded room.  He nodded  his head,  returning greetings  to several
people who called out to him while eying Rochelle with interest.

Everyone knew Michael, and he seemed  to know everybody, Rochelle thought. While
she wasn't aware  of anyone noticing her in particular,  everyone was. She could
not have known, but in a small town such  as this one, she was big news. Any new
person to the area became worthy of a great deal of speculation, sometimes good,
sometimes  bad. The  fact that  Michael, the  most eligible  bachelor for  miles
around was  her escort, they would  draw a wave  of wagging tongues. It  was not
until she and  Michael sat down at  the small square table that  she noticed sly
glances darting toward them.

“Why  are those  people looking  at us,  Michael?” she  whispered, always  a
little paranoiac because of her fear of Tobias finding her.

“They're  curious. You're  a  new face  around these  parts,  and everyone  is
wondering who the  beautiful lady is that's spending the  evening with me,” he
laughed softly.

“Michael, there's a question I need to ask you. You're not married or…”

“Or  taken?”   he  filled   in  for  her,   smiling.  “No,   neither.  I'm
unattached.”

That knowledge  made her  feel better.  “Good, I would  hate to  think they're
staring because I'm out with a married man.”

The  casual atmosphere  was so  pleasing she  could nearly  forget that  she was
running away from a monster and that  her life remained in jeopardy if he should
find her. When she turned her  brightest smile upon Michael, he looked longingly
at her  lips. She could not  begin to imagine the  strength of his urge  to kiss
her, it growing stronger by the minute.

The waiter gave them menus and took Michael's wine order.

“Why have you never married?” Rochelle asked when the waiter walked away.

“I suppose I've been busy doing other things.”

“Most men are busy, but they find time for home and family.”

He looked away,  either thoughtful about his  answer or trying to find  a way to
evade the question.





“I'm sorry, I didn't mean to pry.” Rochelle stated after his lengthy pause.

“Would you  believe I've  just never  met the woman  I want  to spend  my life
with?” he asked good-naturedly, grinning.

She sent  him a sidewise  glance. “Is that because  you're hard to  please, or
just not interested in marriage?”

“Well, I suppose you can say I'm selective instead of hard to please, and I do
plan to marry  someday. It just has  to be with the right  woman.” He appeared
amused and his attitude was playfully humorous.

“You're never very serious when you're away from the bank, are you?”

“One must wear many hats,” he grinned with a sparkle in his blue eyes.

She searched his face, thinking a hat was the only thing missing from his attire
that would  have given him  the appearance of a  real Montana cowboy.  “Yes, I
suppose one does,” she agreed with a sardonic grin.

Their eyes met and  held for an instant, something clicked  between them, just a
subtle flash of deep  feeling, and then it was gone.  Rochelle lowered her eyes,
and was  thankful for the waiter's  timely interruption as he  poured glasses of
wine and took their food order.

“You'll find that here most people refuse  to be rushed. The food is worth the
wait though,” said Michael, when the waiter went away.

“I don't mind waiting. This is a pleasant change for me,” she said, thinking
of Tobias  and his  drunken friends  whom she had  despised. Michael  helped her
forget, in lapses, the hell of what she had left behind and the fear of her past
catching up with her.

“A pleasant  change from  the motel room,  or am I  to understand  that you're
referring to your life in Miami?”





She searched his face  a moment, and then smiled. “Michael,  you're a sly one,
you are. You don't miss an opportunity to learn more about me.”

He reached  across the table and  took her hand, smiling.  “Well, what's wrong
with that? I want to know more about you.”

“What's wrong  with that is that  you don't disclose anything  about yourself.
Have you heard of the sharing game—I  tell you something, and then you tell me
something?”

His eyes were laughing at her. “You'd be bored to death,” he grinned.

“I think I'd be the best judge of that,” she smiled. His lightness of manner
had  relaxed her  enough  she  could almost  forget  her  fears associated  with
Tobias—almost.

The time quickly moved past nine, and  toward the front of the large dining room
was a platform where a group  of musicians started setting up their instruments.
A small dance floor was next to the platform.

“You didn't tell me they had a band. I thought it was just a restaurant.”

“There's  not  a  great  deal  of entertainment  around  our  small  town,  so
proprietors take  advantage of what  people like  and turn it  into money-making
enterprises. After  the dinner crowd  leaves, you'll  see an entirely  new group
fill the tables. They're  more like party animals than the ones  you see now. Do
you dance?” he asked as an afterthought.

“I have been known to,” she said, remembering it as about the only thing she
and Tobias did well  together. He actually taught her to  dance. Her high school
dances proved less than instructive. “I  assume the after nine group you speak
of are the exception to the early to bed, early to rise crowd.”

“They are the nonconformists,” he chuckled.





They sat silent as they watched the band  set up and test their instruments in a
cacophony of sounds contrasting against each other.

The waiter brought their food, and Michael was right. The steaks were delicious,
juicy and tender.  The earlier diners were beginning to  clear out, and Rochelle
did not feel  the unbidden stare of  curious eyes. She found it  easier to relax
and enjoy her  meal, and shortly after  they began eating, the band  struck up a
soft arrangement of dinner music for the last diners of the evening.

“Michael, this one's for you and your  lovely lady,” one of the band members
said over  the mike,  quickly drawing Rochelle's  attention. Michael  nodded his
head in acknowledgment, turning his eyes and attention back to his lovely lady.

“Do you know everybody?” Rochelle asked with amusement

“Everybody knows everybody else in a small community.”

“And is everyone as well liked as you?”

“They treat me well because I handle their money,” he teased.

“What an original idea,” she said  raising her brows cynically in jest. When
she looked at him, he was smiling  mischievously. His humor was fetching and she
chuckled happily. Michael Matheson was good for  her. He brought out the best in
her.





Chapter Fourteen


By the time Rochelle  and Michael finished eating, most of  the other diners had
left. The busboy  cleared tables of all  signs of the dinner  crowd. New patrons
quickly  began filing  in,  taking tables  and ordering  drinks  while the  band
increased  the  tempo  of  their music,  changing  intermittently  between  soft
slow-dance music  and rock  and roll.  When they played  a slow  number, Michael
asked  Rochelle to  dance. She  looked  at him  skeptically at  first, and  then
reaching out for his hand, she rose and let him lead her to the dance floor.

Michael swept Rochelle into his arms, and with his hand on her back steering her
to his steps,  they danced in perfect  unison to the music. He  was an excellent
dancer and  Rochelle swayed in  his arms weightlessly. She  basked in a  glow of
warmth encompassing  a sense of well  being that lured long  denied yearnings to
the surface. The relaxed atmosphere and his pleasant company delighted her.

The music  spoke the language of  love like the throbbing  heartbeats of lovers.
The mood was  romantic and sensuous, and  when Rochelle raised her  head to meet
Michael's eyes, she  suddenly felt shy and overheated beneath  the warmth of his
gaze. He kissed her  cheek, then her ear, trailing a path of  kisses to her neck
and throat. The kisses, tickled. They  titillated. She wanted to lose herself in
the sweetness  of the music,  the protective warmth  of Michael's arms,  and the
lighthearted gaiety of an unusually pleasant evening.

While she would  gladly forget Tobias in  exchange for the kind  of normalcy she
and  Michael were  enjoying,  she could  not.  He was  at the  core  of all  her
thoughts, haunting the long denied moments of enjoyment.

“Shall we dance again?” Michael asked when the song ended and another began.

“I think not,” she  said, and felt his arm encircling  her waist, making her
feel so at  one with him. Before he  would permit her to take a  seat, he pulled
the table away from the wall, and put their chairs side by side so they would be
facing the band.  When they both sat  down, his arm eased  across her shoulders,
and he pulled her against him, no  concern at all for the constant looks darting
their way.

“Comfortable?” he asked, kissing her ear.





“Michael, please  don't do  that,” she  said breathlessly.  No one  had ever
kissed her before  except Tobias, whose kisses disgusted  her. Michael's kisses,
however, kindled a warm  glow that spread across her like the  effects of a fine
vintage wine.

“Why not?” he whispered in her ear.  “Don't you like it?” His voice held
a tone of teasing

“Yes… no…I mean… oh, just please don't do it.”

“It's going  to be kind of  hard to stop,” he  said, his face buried  in her
hair, “unless I push the table back  against the wall, and put you across from
me again.” He did not intend on doing that.

“Then maybe  we should  push the  table back,”  she suggested  seriously, as
though in deep conference over resolving a problem.

A smile touched Michael's lips, and he breathed a deep sigh, forcing himself not
to kiss her. He kept his arm across  her shoulder, his hand toying with her arm,
his fingers gliding  up and down, or  making tiny circles beneath  the sleeve of
her shirt. Once or twice she reached  up and covered his hand with hers, halting
his caresses. As soon as she moved her hand away, they started again.

Michael would like nothing better than for the night not to end.

He could not  recall any other woman whom  he had been so attracted  to in every
possible way,  as he was Rochelle.  She was adorable, passionate,  soft, tender,
and so  very lovable. His mind  flitted to a vision  of what joy it  would be to
have just one night with her enfolded in his arms with the texture of her creamy
body glued to his, while he buried his need deep inside her.

“Would you  like to dance  again?” he whispered close  to her ear,  his face
buried in her clean scented hair, wanting to dance so he would have an excuse to
hold her.

“I don't know. Perhaps we should leave.  It's getting late, and I do have much
to do tomorrow.”





“Just one more dance, and I promise I'll escort you tomorrow wherever you need
to go.”

“What about your bank? Don't you have to work?”

His breath  was against her  cheek, his arm  steadfast about her  shoulders, his
fingers brushing  caresses on her  arm. His closeness was  intoxicating, causing
her heart to beat faster. His touch  and closeness stimulated every nerve in her
body. An  aura of expectancy, so  unlike anything known with  Tobias, surrounded
her.

Michael, unknowingly, touched a deep need  inside her that was both exhilarating
and  frightening. She  wanted to  slow things  down, keep  Michael friendly  but
personally distant, but she knew the  evening had gently pushed them beyond that
point.

“That's  the nice  part about  being one's  own boss.  I can  take off  when I
want.” He  kissed her ear,  the gesture seeming  as natural as  breathing, her
closeness a heady tonic. Her loveliness  created a need that, once fulfilled, he
believed, could provide the missing link to his less than happy existence.

“Let's  dance,” he  said,  touching  his tongue  to  her  ear with  arousing
pleasure.

“Michael, you really mustn't,” she whispered meekly, her every resolve wrung
from her by the mere touch of his lips on her flesh.

Michael's warm hand closed around hers,  and Rochelle rose with unimpaired grace
while holding  his hand and  letting him  lead her to  the dance floor,  all the
while feeling very special by his  absorbed attention. Deprived of affection for
such a long time, any hint of it was worthy of raising her spirits.

Michael stopped  by the band  and whispered something  to one of  the musicians.
Then wrapping his  arms about Rochelle, he danced her  onto the floor, absorbing
her body against his to the soft  composition of a melody she did not recognize.
When the tune ended and Michael  kept dancing, the bandleader smiled toward them
and said,  “One more time  for Michael and his  lady.” They played  the same
song  again,  and Michael  and  Rochelle  kept  dancing,  the music  a  romantic
rendition with dreamy words of love.

Rochelle lifted her face  to his. “Are each of your dates  referred to as your
lady?”

Michael touched his lips  to hers, just a feather kiss,  but oh, so provocative.
Their eyes caught and held as the band moved into another number without a break
between the  two pieces. “You're the  only lady I've ever  brought here,” he
smiled.

“Why do I feel you've just danced around my question?”

For an  answer, he kissed  her ear and  nuzzled his face  in her long  hair, and
asked, “Is it really important?”

“Probably not,” she replied teasingly. She sent him a badly contrived smile,
wondering how  many other ladies he'd  held on this dance  floor. Probably many,
she thought.  It occurred to  her that Michael really  enjoyed a good  time with
laughter and carefree living. Still, there was that element of seriousness about
him, too, in well-balanced proportions.

One of the fellows groaned out the words to a love song, and all the eyes in the
house trained  a straight  gaze toward  Michael and  Rochelle. Sly  remarks were
made, bets placed, and opinions aired.

Three women sitting  at a table together shot Rochelle  with imaginary arrows of
envy and  discussed how numerous  women had tried  to ensnare Michael,  the most
eligible bachelor in the county. If Michael  knew he and Rochelle were drawing a
great deal of attention, he seemed  not to notice. His interest focused entirely
upon her as he drew her soft body against his.

Rochelle was not immune to his sexual proclivity. When he buried his face in her
hair, and his breath  touched her ear like a fanning  butterfly wing, it aroused
longings all new and wonderful.

The surge  of warmth  in her blood  left an  exquisite ache at  the core  of her
womanhood. If he was  trying to seduce her, he was doing a  much better job than
Tobias had ever done.

Surrendering to the pleasure of the moment, the sudden thought of Tobias invaded
her pleasant  mood, bringing  back an  outpouring of  memories so  horrible they
soured everything for her. She had run away from him, but she could not get away
from him even with miles separating them. He was like a parasite feasting on her
mind, spoiling any chance of peace or pleasure.

“Michael, I'd like to sit down,” she said, suddenly feeling ill.

He did not argue, and escorted her off the floor, sensing her changed mood.

After they  sat down, she turned  to him, her  eyes no longer bright  with humor
and  delight. Her  face  was  flushed and  her  expression  clouded with  doubt,
uncertainty, and confusion.  “If you don't mind, I really  would like to leave
now,” she said, hiding the soft quiver of her chin in her cupped hand.

“Okay,” he  said, gently touching his  lips to her cheek,  and motioning for
the waiter to bring  the tab. He slipped a bill to the  waiter, said good night,
and guided Rochelle toward the door.

“Mike, don't stay away so long next time,” Ken told him when they passed the
front counter, “and bring back your lovely young lady.”

“You can count  on it. Night, Ken,” Michael said,  and escorted Rochelle out
the door.

When he looked at his watch, it was nearly midnight. Still not wanting the night
to end, he drove as slowly as he dared on the way to the motel.

Rochelle sat on the far side of  the seat. When Michael touched her hand, giving
a little tug  to get her to slide  closer to him, she shook  her head, refusing.
For a little while, she had allowed herself to forget everything, forget why she
ran away,  why she  was in Montana,  why she was  alone. Unconsciously,  she had
reached out to  the first person whom she  met to fill up that awful  void. In a
matter of a few hours, she was all ready leaning upon Michael's strength.

How easy,  she thought, to fall  prey to someone  who could make things  seem so
pleasant and carefree. It was not what she wanted.

She did not want to fall into another trap such as Tobias had devised for her.

“Are you okay, Rochelle?” Michael asked,  a feeling of tenderness making his
voice unusually gentle.

“Yes,” she answered, knowing it was a lie. Her emotions were in turmoil. She
could not make sense out of her feelings.  It was not normal to feel attached to
Michael after  one evening  with him. In  fact, she knew  how dangerous  it was.
Hadn't she done the same with Tobias, and regretted ever having met him?

Tobias swept her off her feet the first  time they met. He took her to the disco
club as  if luring  her into  his den. Needing  his help  to prevent  her mother
finding  out  about her  reckless  driving,  she  had been  one-hundred  percent
compliable to his  attentions. He made her feel beautiful  and important, and in
the following  days, his  words, his kisses,  and his touches  had all  been her
undoing.

If not for that wreck, she would not be in this predicament now.

Further, if she had been more mature,  she might have made better choices rather
than becoming involved with  a man old enough to be her father.  Oh, it had been
wonderful with Tobias  in the very beginning, but all  things have their season,
and her and Tobias's season had come and gone all too quickly.

Her mind tripped  back to the time  when her parents were in  her life, offering
love and safety, which she shunned in exchange for Tobias Chandler. Oh, mama and
dad, I need you so much, an inner voice cried.





“Rochelle, you're  very quiet,”  Michael said, reaching  across the  seat to
take her hand.

His fingers warmed  the chill of her  hand, but nothing could warm  the chill of
her  soul. Tobias  had defiled  her,  leaving her  haunted by  guilt, fear,  and
revulsion. “I'm sorry. I  am not exactly the best company right  now. I have a
great deal on my mind.”

“You've  been  wonderful  company,”  he said  softly,  squeezing  her  hand.
“Thank you  for an  excellent evening.” He  was pulling up  in front  of her
motel door.  He turned  off the  engine, and sat  for a  moment, looking  at her
before he climbed from the car and walked around to open her door.

Rochelle dug  in her purse for  her key and had  it ready when he  reached in to
help her from  the car. She slid her  small hand in his larger  one, rising from
the seat of the car and stepping aside so Michael could close the door. Briefly,
he  pulled her  against him  before they  walked to  her room.  Her hands  shook
noticeably, her fingers still feeling cold even though the night was warm.

Michael took the key from her and  unlocked the door. He turned the doorknob and
pushed the door open.

“Your  hands are  like ice,”  he said,  warming them  with his,  keeping her
standing outside the door.

She pulled her hands  away and gazed into the room. “Did I  leave the light on
before I left?” Her voice took on an edge of apprehension.

“I believe you  did,” he said, and  knew she feared someone  might be inside
the room. He went in before her, looked about the room then went to the bathroom
and  peeked in.  Only then  did she  step across  the threshold,  looking mildly
relieved.

“Will you  be all right?” The  two of them stopped  at the foot of  the bed.
Wrapping his arms about  her, he felt her lean heavily  against his chest, their
thighs brushing with heated friction.





“Yes, I'll be all  right,” she said, sounding as though  she did not believe
it. What  she really wanted to  say was, stay with  me. Don't go. Please  do not
leave me. However, she  knew better than give in to the  temptation. She was too
vulnerable,  and  his  nearness  was prompting  too  many  contradictions,  some
extremely pleasant, others frightening and troublesome.

He lifted one  arm from about her and  touched his hand to her  cheek. “Do you
still have my telephone number?”

“Yes, it's in my purse.” She  was clinging to Michael without even realizing
it.

“You know you can  call me, no matter what time it is,  if you need me.” His
finger traced a  path down her cheek  and across her lips. Then  when she opened
her mouth to answer, he planted his mouth on hers, his tongue gently testing her
resistance by  thrusting lightly into the  cavern of satin smoothness.  She held
back at first, and then came a slow, unfurling response. Her tongue met his in a
warring dance of advance and retreat  until their passions turned to sultry heat
infusing and consuming them.

It was too good to last. Like a strike of lightning, she pulled away, sucking in
a big breath of air, her face flushed.

“No,  we mustn't.”  Her voice  was soft,  but shook  with emotion,  her body
trembling in waves, a mixture of passion and fear totally unbalancing her.

“It's okay,”  he said, still  holding her. “Get  a good night's  sleep and
I'll pick you up  at seven-thirty. We'll have breakfast, and  then I'll take you
to Bozeman for a car.”

“I don't know,” she whispered doubtfully.  “You've been so kind all ready.
I don't feel right taking up so much of your time.”

“That's absurd.  Don't you know  how much I've  enjoyed being with  you?” He
touched her cheek, his thumb nuzzling her cheekbone softly.





Then she said it, turning away as she did. “That's what I'm afraid of.”

“There's nothing  to be afraid of,  Rochelle. Nothing is going  to happen that
you don't want to happen.”

“There's so much you don't know, can't possibly understand,”

she blurted out, turning to face him.

“And you'll tell me when the time is right.”

Her chin and lips  quivered, and he put his arms around her  again. Her head lay
comfortably  against his  shoulder, her  hands reaching  up to  lie flat  on his
chest. She nestled  against him affectionately, prolonging the  comfort his arms
offered, fending away the fear that would  enshroud her the minute he walked out
the door.

Michael pulled away first, holding her at  arms length. “I'll go now, and I'll
see you  in the morning,” he  whispered softly, touching her  lips gently with
his before  backing away. The  frightened look on her  face touched a  stream of
humanity in him.

When he was out  the door, she closed it behind him. She  put the night chain on
and threw  the deadbolt in  place. She leaned  back heavily against  the painted
wood door,  breathing deeply, willing  her trembling  body to relax.  She should
have told him not to come back.

It was not  far to the small restaurant.  She could walk. She could  also take a
bus or a  cab into Bozeman where she  could buy a car and do  some shopping. She
had been dependent upon someone all her life.

Growing dependent  upon Michael could become  an addiction she dared  not allow.
Maybe he would  call first in the morning  to wake her, and then  she would tell
him she could manage without him.

With that thought  in mind, she took  off her clothes, took  another shower, and
dressed for bed.

Nighttime was  more frightening than  any other  time, the darkness  holding all
sorts of  imagined threats. She left  the bathroom light burning,  it spilling a
stream of soft light across the room.  She crawled into bed, staring a long time
at the ceiling  while thoughts pounded her weary brain.  Tobias still refused to
allow her to ignore him, as he claimed priority attention in her ruminations.



MICHAEL DROVE HOME with thoughts so  intense his shoulders grew stiff and rigid.
He understood  Rochelle's fear; at least,  he thought he did.  However, he could
not understand his own feelings.

His  emotions were  having a  field day,  responding too  quickly to  sensations
aroused by  a desirable woman.  He was treading ground  where he had  never been
before since he had never been emotionally attached to any other woman. Love, or
being in  love, was  an elusive  perception for him.  Not ever  experiencing it,
outside his family,  he could not identify  with those who had.  Now, however, a
deep consciousness awakened in him, and he debated on where he might be heading.

Rochelle's life  was highly unstable,  as were her  emotions. She might  be here
today, gone  tomorrow. Bentley  Harrison had  intimated she  might have  to flee
again. If  she did run  away, how would that  affect his life?  Any relationship
with her, no matter how mild, or serious, would be at risk from now on until the
threat of her husband finding her was past.  Would it ever be past, or would she
be running the rest  of her life? She was married,  and her situation prohibited
her from obtaining a divorce. Was he  prepared to involve himself in a difficult
situation that could never contain the certainty of firm commitments?

“Damn, I've known her  one day and already I'm like  a lovesick teenager. What
in the  hell is wrong with  me?” he said  aloud to himself, feeling  almost as
confused as she probably was.

Despite his unrest with being a banker,  Michael could not imagine what it might
be like, not having a firm foundation or footing beneath him. He was born into a
family  whose stability  provided an  ingrained steadfastness  to his  life, his
livelihood, and  his existence. To  be without  that firm solidness  and balance
would  acutely disrupt  his serenity.  Thus, the  thought of  where his  present
emotions might lead  him was a disturbing  notion. He could walk  away right now
and  his life  would go  on as  usual  with a  boring daily  routine holding  no
surprises; or, he  could continue seeing Rochelle, letting things  move of their
own accord, leaving everything to chance.

Hell, he thought  all of a sudden,  he should not even be  debating such issues.
Had his  ordeal with  the death  of his  parents robbed  him of  his risk-taking
tendency? There  was a  time when he  dared try anything  that appealed  to him,
never thinking  for one second  about possible  consequences. Now, it  seemed he
could not take a single step without looking to see where his foot would fall.

After he  arrived home, he  brushed his teeth, and  lowered himself to  the firm
springs of the mattress, soon tossing and turning.

He could not get his mind off her. He  had met and known her for one single day,
and his emotions were racing like a disturbed bed of ants. He kept seeing her in
that  long white  satiny gown,  it hugging  her slender  but shapely  curves. He
imagined she  would probably sleep  on her side, have  her knees pulled  up. Her
thick long  hair would spill  about her head upon  the pillow, framing  the soft
texture of the velvety smoothness of her face.

“Damn!” he swore,  flinging himself off the bed, and  going into the kitchen
where he poured a hearty portion of bourbon in a glass.

He downed it in one swallow, chasing its burning path with water.

He went back  to his bed, tossed and  turned some more, but the  strength of the
alcohol had a settling effect upon his  nerves, and soon he drifted off to sleep
after remembering to set his alarm clock.





Chapter Fifteen


Michael knocked  on Rochelle's door,  and stood waiting, realizing  she probably
was still sleeping, since she did not have a clock.

“Yes,” her sleepy voice echoed softly through the door.

“Rochelle, it's me, Michael.” He  waited through what seemed several minutes
before he heard the sound of the  night chain rattling and the lock turning just
before the  door opened. She  stood before him in  her long nightgown,  her arms
wrapped across  her chest, her  eyes looking clouded,  not with sleep,  but from
lack of it.

“I couldn't find my robe,” she  muttered uneasily, a bit of paranoia gaining
strength  as she  struggled up  through the  layers of  tiredness to  awareness.
Turning her back, she looked about the room, went and checked the bathroom, then
came back to find Michael holding her robe.

He was smiling  gingerly as he offered  it to her, his eyes  taking advantage of
the opportunity to study the lovely  sight claiming his gaze. Her breasts pushed
at the loose  fabric of her gown,  the nipples plump and ripe  and creating tiny
peaks behind  the shimmering, satiny  material. Her hipbones  protruded slightly
and the gown fell  against a flat stomach. When she turned to  one side to slide
the robe over  her shoulders and on  her arms, he saw her  shapely derriere, and
was quickly reminded that the ironclad control  of his sexual urges had lost its
mastery. An abrupt hunger weighed heavily in his loins.

“Where did you find it?” she asked, and sighed with relief when he indicated
a place beneath the coverlet on the bed.  With her arms in the sleeves, she left
the belt hanging loose, and the deep  cleavage between her breasts awed him. The
power of his  awakening passion erupted like  a sudden storm. He  wanted her. He
wanted her badly.





Going up to her, Michael took her robe  belt in both his hands and pulled her up
against him.

“Good morning,”  he said, leaning closer  to her face until  his lips grazed
hers. Then he covered her mouth with his when she started to reply. He had hoped
last  night's strong  feelings were  no more  than an  illusion that  would have
disappeared with today's early morning light.  When he touched his lips to hers,
however, measuring her slow, uncoiling response, he knew this was no illusion. A
shared fire had kindled between them. Their infatuation, attraction, or whatever
the definition, was firmly in place.

Michael felt  a sudden charge  of adrenaline, his  hormones kicking in,  and his
manhood growing rigid  against her. If she noticed, she  wasn't fighting it, and
he found himself backing her toward the bed until her legs touched the mattress.
He lowered her,  his breathing short and ragged. His  hands were already sliding
off her robe, pushing  the straps of her gown over  her shoulders until delicate
pink rosebuds sharpened  his gaze as he watched them  hardening before his eyes.
He lowered his mouth to one, his hand cupping the other, as he tasted that sweet
bud. With senses charged by unabated yearning, his need drove him like a runaway
vehicle.

His kisses deepened,  his hand moving to  secret places that prompted  a need to
know every infinite detail of Rochelle's body.

Her  response jarred  his senses,  leading him  down a  road that  beckoned with
heated longing. Her gown slid easily over her hips, down her legs until the only
thing between them was his cumbersome  clothing. He began loosening his belt and
the front of his pants, his hands moving with lightening speed.

Then she  began to tremble.  It started in  her shoulders, flowing  like ripples
down her  entire body. At  first, Michael wanted to  believe it was  passion. He
continued touching her everywhere, kissing her,  working into a heated frenzy of
longing.





Then he saw her face.

Her eyes stretched  wide like a frightened little kid's,  tears running from the
corners. Although she made no move to stop what he was doing, he knew she was no
longer enjoying  it. Some dark  shadow had formed a  cloud over her  desire. His
need shut down as quickly as a key  turning off his car engine, and he rolled to
her side, propping himself on an elbow to look at her.

“It's  okay,” he  whispered, brushing  her damp  tear-stained hair  from her
cheeks. She turned her head away so he  could not see the expression on her face
anymore, but he had seen it already and knew something had disrupted the flow of
white-hot  passion  witnessed  in  those first  fiery  embraces  and  smoldering
caresses.

“I'm sorry,  Michael,” she  said several  minutes later,  staring up  at the
ceiling with  the sheet covering her.  “It has nothing  to do with you.  It is
about me.  I couldn't.  I just  couldn't.” After  experiencing so  much sexual
abuse, it was hard to let go to new desires.

“Do you  want to talk  about it?” he asked  gently, his fingers  cupping the
nape of her neck, his thumb nuzzling the soft creamy smoothness of her throat.

“No,” she said  shaking her head, unable  to tell him that  all the horrible
ordeals with Tobias  had flooded her brain  at the instant she  would have given
herself to him.

“Then I  tell you what,  why don't you  put on your  jeans, and we'll  go have
breakfast. After that, we'll go to Bozeman and see about a car for you.”

He raised her up to a sitting position, and she wiped her eyes with her fingers.
While  she  was  grabbing for  her  robe  to  cover  herself, Michael  gained  a
delectable eyeful that warmed him instantly  to pure sensuous delight. He gorged
his eyes with  the most superb round  breasts ever, the pink  rosebud nipples as
enticing as any  he had seen. The fair  skin like cream begged for  the taste of
his tongue and lips. He shuddered with longing.

Rochelle crawled off the bed, quickly donning her robe, but not before Michael's
eyes mentally photographed  every inch of her. She possessed  a glorious figure,
and the  curves, dips and peaks  were wonderfully tempting. With  his eyes still
mesmerized by  her graceful figure and  movements, he watched her  walk to where
her clothes  hung on a hanger.  She took the  hanger, clothes and all,  and went
into the bathroom.

While she  dressed, Michael  picked up  the phone  and called  Ronald Zimmerman.
“Hey, Ron, I'm  going to be busy most  of the day. How about  opening the bank
for me and keep an eye on things?”

“Sure thing, there isn't a problem, is there?” he queried.

“No, just some personal business I need to attend to,” Michael told him, and
hung up.

He sat pondering over  what had just happened between Rochelle  and him. She had
been so passionate and responsive, and then,  in the flick of a moment, she shut
down. He  shook his head,  crediting her reaction to  the fact they  barely knew
each other. He knew how some women  clung to their morals, disavowing any desire
for casual  sex. Still, that  had not seemed to  be Rochelle's problem.  She was
passionate one moment, icy the next. As she expressed last night, there was much
he did not know or understand about her.

When Rochelle  stepped from  the bathroom,  she was in  control again.  She sent
Michael a timid smile.  The tight little jeans outlined her  lithe figure like a
glove, and although dressed casual,  she was breathtakingly beautiful. Michael's
heart did  a flip-flop in his  chest as he recalled  how he had kissed  her, and
touched every inch of her.





The feeling of familiarity had him pulling her against him. “I do like holding
you,” he admitted.

“I  like it  too,” she  whispered,  draping her  arms around  his neck,  and
leaning her cheek against his hard, broad shoulder.

“Are you afraid of me, Rochelle?” he asked suddenly.

She winced noticeably, and  stiffened in his arms. “No, I  feel very safe with
you. I'm just afraid of an involvement,” she whispered softly, and although he
was not ready to let it drop, he knew  he would get nothing more from her on the
subject. He also doubted her reason.

“Shall we  go to  breakfast?” he asked,  unable to put  aside the  images of
delectable pink nipples ripening like plump, tender rosebuds before his eyes.

Michael caught a glimpse of doubt in her  eyes as her hands slid from around his
neck and down his  chest. She backed away, her features  taking on an expression
of silent pondering.

“Breakfast? I don't  know. Michael, I don't think I  can…” She paused, and
was thoughtful a moment. “Just what is it you expect of me?”

“Doubts  so soon?  I am  not  going to  ask you  to  do anything  you are  not
comfortable doing. Does that answer your question?”

She regarded him through deep introspection, finally saying,

“Intimacy frightens me for a number  of reasons. But more importantly, I think
I need to learn how to stand on my own two feet.”

“I didn't  know the two were  related,” he teased, his  fingers touching the
silky texture of her neck and throat.

She inclined her head. “What I mean  is… I just don't want to become reliant
upon you.”

“And you won't.  Now stop worrying and let's go  have breakfast.” He reached
out his hand to her, and marveled  at the delicate soft fingers that intertwined
with his.  Smiling a bit  tensely up  at him, her  mood changed by  degrees, and
Michael  recalled a  science reel  with the  time-release action  of a  flower's
petals unfurling.

Caroline invaded his pleasant images all of  a sudden when he saw her car parked
along the street when he neared the restaurant.

He hoped her phone call last evening would end their relationship.

He did not want to hurt her, but nothing between them was worth continuing. With
her hot temper, she could cause unsettling problems.



MICHAEL WAS SADLY MISTAKEN if he thought things would end easily between him and
Caroline.  He and  Rochelle had  barely  sat down  and given  their order,  when
Caroline came hurtling through the door. She was dressed in a two-piece suit for
her switchboard job at the police station, looking extremely smart in her heels,
her hair twirled into a neat twist on  the back of her head. The speed, however,
with which she moved, destroyed the effect of her nicely clad figure. She looked
more like a mad dog ready to attack.

Caroline  obviously saw  Michael's  car outside,  not to  mention  the fact  she
probably got wind of his and Rochelle's outing at the steak house last night. He
saw her coming, as  did everyone else. He abruptly came to  his feet, wanting to
head her off before she got to his and Rochelle's table.

“Excuse me, Rochelle,” he said quickly,  his face losing its composure while
he hurried toward a charging Caroline who was hot for a confrontation.

With no time  to answer, Rochelle shot  him a surprised glance,  and watched him
hurry past her.

“Damn you!”

Rochelle heard a woman's  voice at her back, and she turned just  in time to see
Michael grab the woman's arm and usher her out the door. After the shock passed,
Rochelle's face  must have turned a  dozen different shades of  red while people
watched her reaction.

Temporarily  glued to  her seat,  she  attempted to  make sense  from what  just
occurred. An  old flame, she decided,  since he told  her last night he  was not
married or attached—unless  it was a lie. She sat  there stiffly, undetermined
as to  what to  do. From  where she  sat, she  could see  Michael and  the woman
standing by his car, and although their words were not audible, it was blatantly
apparent the woman was yelling at Michael,  shaking her fist at him, even trying
to strike his face at one point until he grabbed her wrist.

With a little cowardly glance at some  of the diners, Rochelle saw them smiling,
and knew  they were either enjoying  her discomfort, or the  spectacle the woman
was causing outside. She heard low voices,  soft whispers, and knew she was part
of their discussion. She  could not stand the scrutiny any  longer. She stood up
and grabbed her purse just as the waitress hurried over to her.

“Don't go,” the waitress said quietly. “He'll be back in a minute.

That woman means nothing to him. She just wishes she did.”

Rochelle acknowledged the waitress with a  glance, a heated flush of red warming
her face.  Embarrassment and tears  did battle  with her self-control,  and were
quickly winning against her attempts to appear unaffected by the ordeal.

“No,” she  said, pushing past  the waitress. “Thank  you, but I  really do
have to leave.” Her  voice broke on the last couple of  words, and she hurried
out the door, blindly  racing across the street to Mabel's  shop, hoping all the
while that Michael and the irate woman would not notice her.

Michael  had his  back to  the restaurant  door and  did not  see Rochelle,  but
Caroline did. Rochelle  was no sooner inside Mabel's  shop, leaning breathlessly
against the door, her eyes pooling with  moisture, than the girl came after her.
Michael,  on the  other hand,  thinking  Rochelle still  waited for  him in  the
restaurant, went back inside.

“What's the matter, Sweetpea?” Mabel  asked, noting a distraught young woman
standing with her back to the door.

Suddenly the  door burst open  with heavy enough  force to send  Rochelle flying
forward. She grabbed for the rack of  clothing to keep from falling on her face.
Mabel knew  immediately what  was wrong.  She had heard,  as had  everyone else,
about  Michael's night  out on  the  town last  night. She  quickly put  herself
between Caroline and Rochelle.

“You  filthy bitch!”  Caroline screeched  at  Rochelle, her  arms and  fists
flailing as she tried to move past Mabel.  “Why don't you go find your own man
and leave mine  alone?” Her fist shook violently at  Rochelle, and she reached
around Mabel trying to get in a punch.

Mabel  kept the  bulk  of her  body  as a  shield between  them  and warded  off
Caroline's  attack.  “That's  enough,  Caroline! Get  out  of  here,”  Mabel
shouted, backing her toward the door.

Michael  came rushing  in, his  face  terribly pale  and chiseled  like a  solid
granite mask of anger.

“Its okay,  Michael, Caroline was  just leaving.” Mabel's eyes  shot daggers
through her,  and Caroline  knew she could  not bully Mabel.  She backed  off in
retreat, but she was not finished with Rochelle.

She  raised both  fists and  shook them  at Rochelle.  “You little  red-headed
whore,  when I  get  the chance  I'll  tear your  eyes  out!” she  threatened.
Turning, she purposely rammed her  shoulder into Michael, nearly unbalancing him
before going out the door.

The only  person who  was not  upset was Mabel.  “Come here,  Sweetpea,” she
said, going to Rochelle  and wrapping her large arms about  her. Her buxom chest
offered a soft and comforting cushion for a tearful young woman's head.

Michael held  a rigid pose,  feeling completely  helpless and looking  the part.
Caroline warned him  yesterday evening. He should have known  this would happen,
and should have seen it coming.

God, he  was stupid  to have  continued with  Caroline so  long. He  should have
broken it off completely a long time  ago. He could not ignore Caroline's threat
to Rochelle. Her temper was ripe enough to provoke her to just about anything.

What a circus,  he thought, realizing how the grapevine  was probably dancing to
the tune of  the gossipers. If that  was not bad enough, there  was Caroline and
her jealous ravings, targeting an innocent girl as her victim.

Mabel gently moved Rochelle away from her comforting bosom and turned her toward
the back of her  store to the bathroom. “Go in there,  Sweetpea, and wash that
pretty face of yours. It'll make you feel better.”

Rochelle nodded her head, obeying like an obedient child, her shoulders drooping
dejectedly. She felt terribly defeated, as if her life was without foundation or
purpose. All  she wanted to do  was be alone where  she could cry until  no more
tears were inside her.





Chapter Sixteen


Mabel went back up front where Michael stood like an erect statue.

She clapped him  on his back with  the palm of her hand.  “Michael, you're not
using very  good judgment, are you?”  she suggested, and she  was probably the
only person Michael knew who could talk down to him like that.





“Damn it, Mabel, I knew Caroline would  be trouble, but what was I supposed to
do?” He  ran his fingers across  his chin and  shook his head glumly,  a frown
winding tightly on his  face. “I swear I've never led her  on about how things
stand between us.”

“You don't  have to  convince me  of that, but  you might  need a  little help
convincing Sweetpea,”  Mabel said, glancing behind  them to be sure  they were
still alone. “Everybody in town has been  telling you to drop Caroline. She is
just not for you,  Mikey. She has no class, no style, and  when her parents were
passing out  graciousness and  good manners,  they skipped  Caroline altogether.
That one back there, though, little Sweetpea, she  is a real lady. She is also a
fragile little thing who  needs lots of protecting. You sure  you're cut out for
her kind, Mikey?”

“Damn, Mabel,  you're as  bad as  everybody else in  this gossiping  town. The
girl's been in town one night and everybody has me married to her all ready.”

“Well, I  wasn't the one who  took her out to  the Steak House last  night and
flaunted my attentions  on her like she  was the only little filly  in the whole
world,” Mabel said disdainfully with a smirking grin.

“So, that's the word that's out, huh.  I bet all the telephone lines were busy
last night.  It was probably the  latest anyone in  this town has stayed  up for
months. Does everybody think I've been stricken?”

“Well,  aren't you?”  Mabel retorted  with raised  brows. “How  many other
banking customers do you wine and dine and dance until the morning hour?”

“Mabel, can't you  help squelch the gossip  just a little? The  situation is a
bit more complicated than what meets the eye.”

Mabel's  brows shot  up  again.  “Oh, does  that  mean  she's married?”  she
implied, quick to jump to the correct conclusion, as was her nature.





“I didn't say that, Mabel, and for  God's sake, don't get that one started. If
Caroline has  her way,  my character will  be so besmirched  I'll never  live it
down.”

“Forget about Caroline.  No one pays her any attention.  I think everybody who
knows you probably wonder  why you have kept things hanging  so long between you
and Caroline. They all know she is  not right for you. That might have something
to do with the  fact that no one likes her, but everybody  loves you, Mikey. You
should know  that, considering how the  whole town stuck behind  you when things
got out of hand with the deaths of your father and stepmother.”

Michael shook his  head and sighed. “Please, Mabel, don't  bring that up. That
is  another story  I do  not  want rehearsed  again. Day  before yesterday  that
grapevine was dead from lack of nourishment.

Yesterday and today grapes have been shooting around like bullets.

They're all aimed at me and that innocent girl back there.”

“You're trying to hide too many skeletons in your closet, Mikey.

Let them out, and live a bit more freely.”

“Some things are best left to rest,” he said, and raised his head toward the
bathroom door as it opened.

Rochelle's good cry helped a little, although her depression and malaise was not
due  entirely  to  Caroline's  confrontation.  Overdue  tears,  bottled  up  and
restrained for years, sought release much too  easily now that she was no longer
under Tobias's emotional suppression. She had  learned at a tender age that life
was hard, that dreams  did not come true just because one  wanted them to. Right
now, she had no illusions about anything.  Her only goal was to stay hidden from
Tobias. One  day at a  time was all  she had, and she  decided she did  not need
additional complications in her life. She needed to make a clean break.

Michael walked past Mabel and went to meet Rochelle. He saw signs of crying, and
it made him feel lousy. “I'm terribly sorry, Rochelle. I should have explained
about Caroline, but considering  the brief time we have known  each other, I did
not think it necessary. What I told you  was the truth. I am not attached to her
or anyone else.”

Mabel patted Rochelle's shoulder, and went behind her counter.

“Sweetpea, some women are just jealous, other's crazy. Caroline fits the crazy
group. Just don't pay her any attention. No one else does.

She's just battling a  lost cause.” Without even trying, Mabel  had just won a
friend.

Warming to  Mabel, Rochelle  nodded her acknowledgement,  unable to  conceal the
long-suffering  look  that  spelled  far greater  concerns  than  Caroline  did.
Reverting to  the poker  face she  had used  with Tobias  for years,  she forced
herself to face the two of them.

Her emotions were so  raw lately that it was hard to  maintain her expression of
indifference. Every minute reminded her that  her life was shattered and no firm
foundation existed  to stabilize it. She  was hurting, a different  kind of hurt
than she had known with Tobias, but emotionally tormenting just the same.

“Were you two having breakfast?” Mabel asked looking at them, taking it upon
herself to right a hairy situation. “I saw you pull up and go in. You'd better
get back over there or your food will be turned to hog slops.”

Michael gave her a revolting glance from the corner of his eye.

“Thanks,  Mabel, I'm  sure  that bit  of knowledge  will  make breakfast  very
palatable.”

“You know me, Mikey. I say it like  it is.” She chuckled and her large bosom
bounced gleefully.

“Mikey?” Rochelle  questioned, hoping she did  not sound as terrible  as she
felt.





“Mabel has a pet name for everybody. I guess you noticed yours is Sweetpea?”

“I thought that might  be Mabel's pet name for all  females.” She was trying
hard to be cheerful,  even shaping her lips into a partial  smile, but the angry
girl's face kept  flashing before her eyes. The  confrontation was embarrassing.
There had to  be more than Michael  was telling her about  his relationship with
the girl; yet, it really wasn't her business. The two of them were strangers and
he was  only being nice  to her,  which was reason  enough to keep  things light
between them.

“You're the only Sweetpea I've run across,” Mabel replied

“Now run  along both of  you. I have  work to do.  I cannot stand  around here
galley-gawking all morning. I don't have the good fortune of being a millionaire
or owning my  own bank.” She gave  Michael a severe glance and  a smile, which
told him right away that absolutely nothing in this town was sacred or immune to
gossip. His  threat to deal with  anyone who voiced Rochelle's  name outside the
bank was wasted words.

Michael shot Mabel another revolting look,  and guided Rochelle out the door. He
was about to lead her across the  street to the restaurant when Rochelle touched
her hand to his sleeve and stopped.

“Michael, I don't want you to help me anymore.”

Michael glanced sharply at her, expelling a quick breath of air.

“Rochelle, don't make more out of Caroline's behavior than it is.

You and I have made plans and we're going to keep them.”

“I don't want to cause problems for  anyone. You say you're not attached, yet,
that woman's attitude clearly states otherwise.”

“You're making too much of Caroline's  poor manners, Rochelle, and I won't let
her  foolish scene  ruin our  day.  We're going  back  over there  and have  our
breakfast like nothing at all has happened,  then we're going to go car shopping
in Bozeman.”

“Michael, I'm embarrassed to go back. Everyone  was staring at me. Just let me
go. I can walk back to the motel.”

He put his arm about her waist and gave a little squeeze.

“Honey, they were staring  at you, but they were frowning  at Caroline. No one
thinks badly of you for what she did,  and you mustn't let another thought of it
worry you.”

Rochelle noticed he called  her honey, an endearment on the  second day of their
having met. It  touched a need, gave  it sustenance, and she became  lost to yet
another form of domination.

Taking a deep breath, she squared her shoulders like a warrior ready for battle,
and that brought a tender smile  to Michael's lips, prompting another squeeze of
his hand  on her waist. She  contained a storehouse  of pride, backed only  by a
gentle spirit, giving her poise and graciousness many women lacked.

All the patrons  were kind to Rochelle  when she and Michael went  back into the
restaurant. Folks averted  their eyes. The waitress came to  meet them, ushering
Rochelle forward toward the table they previously occupied. “Come on, Sweetie,
I'll show you to  your table.” Like Mabel, just a  few minutes previously, the
waitress made a new friend.

“Rochelle,  this is  Sally,” Michael  said.  Both women  greeted each  other
cordially before Sally turned away. She  came back shortly with steaming cups of
coffee.

“Here you are,” Sally said, setting their coffee on the table.

“Since I sold  your first breakfast to  someone else, your order  will be here
shortly.”

“Thanks, Sal,” Michael told her before she rushed off to take someone else's
order. Then  looking at Rochelle,  he said, “Are  you okay?” He  reached his
hand across the table and placed it on hers.





She nodded, looking imploringly at him. “Michael, I don't want to be the cause
of anyone's unhappiness.”

“And you won't be. Whatever was between Caroline and me is over. Please do not
make it your concern. You have enough problems without taking on more.”

“I'm just  no longer sure  that being  with you is  a good idea,”  she said,
recalling how unstable  her entire existence was just now.  She had no clothing,
had no place to stay, except a  small motel room, had no transportation, and she
lived from day to day with the fear of Tobias discovering her whereabouts. If he
ever found her,  he would kill her.  She thoroughly believed that.  Her life was
precarious and her future a big question mark. All she could hope for was living
one day at  a time. Anything beyond  that would be an unexpected  bonus, just as
Michael's presence in her  life had been thus far. It was not  fair to either of
them, however, to nurture an attraction that was destined toward a dead end.

Sally brought their breakfast, and they  started eating. Rochelle could not stop
thinking  about the  girl called  Caroline. The  vehemence of  her jealousy  was
disturbing. Maybe Michael did not think there was anything between them, but the
girl was of another mind. Her brash  behavior proved that idea, unless, as Mabel
said, the girl was a bit crazy.

“How  long have  you dated  Caroline?” she  asked without  considering it  a
personal subject. She and Michael had come a long way from yesterday, surpassing
the boundaries of  unfamiliarity rapidly. She watched Michael  butter his toast,
his jaw tensing while a little pulse throbbed furiously at his throat.

“Do we really  have to discuss this, Rochelle?” he  asked. A glacial reserve
filtered across his gaze.





“Since the girl's  anger is directed at me,  I think I would like  to know the
circumstances surrounding her attack on me,” Rochelle replied in defense.

“There's really nothing to know.”

How could he explain  that he took her out to dinner at  least once a week, took
her to bed more  often than that, but had no attachments to  her. It sounded too
weak even for his ears. Even though he  could care less if he never saw Caroline
again, he  nevertheless, did  have an attachment  to her by  the fact  that they
copulated as much as two or three times some weeks. Feeling as indifferent as he
did toward Caroline, he  cursed himself for not breaking it  off long ago. Since
he had not, he supposed, out of decency, he owed her some sort of explanation.

He also owed one to Rochelle.

Rochelle saw he was evading her question.  She remembered how he kissed her only
a couple  of hours  ago; how he  touched every  part of her  body and  turned on
feelings she  thought she was  incapable of  experiencing. Maybe she  should not
press him, but somehow she felt their intimacy  gave her a right to know what he
was reluctant to tell her.

“I'm sorry,  Michael. Perhaps  I don't  have any  right to  ask you,  but more
importantly, maybe I  don't have the right  to be with you  either.” Her voice
was soft but decisive as if she had just made an important decision.

A  heavy sigh  escaped his  lips, and  the blazing  anger in  his profile  as he
glanced out the plate glass window  caused Rochelle to recoil in alarm. Reaching
across the table, he  grasped her hand and sent her a  speculative gaze that was
utterly unnerving.

“Rochelle, I'm going to answer your question, and then I don't want to discuss
Caroline anymore. She and  I have seen each other off and on  for the past year,
and she initiated every date we have ever had. I have never called her, not even
once.  I do  not even  know her  phone  number. I  haven't made  any pledges  or
commitments to Caroline, and never intended making any.”

Rochelle became  reflective. He might just  as easily have said  something like,
“she baked me  a cake, I ate it,  and I don't owe her anything.”  God, if he
could be  that cold  hearted with  Caroline, what  was to  keep him  from acting
similarly toward her when it suited him.  He was no different from Tobias or any
other  man.  Sex  without  responsibility  seemed  to  be  a  macho  motto.  How
belittling, she thought, unconsciously turning up her nose with disdain.

“Do I  sense a mood?” he  asked, with a  slight note of exasperation  in his
tone.

“You indicated you didn't want to discuss it,” she reported condescendingly.

With a sigh, he said, “What can I say to convince you there is nothing between
me and Caroline?”

She was angry now. What kind of fool did he take her to be?

“There's nothing you can say to convince me, Michael. If you've dated the girl
for a year, I would say that definitely indicates some sort of attachment.”

He let  out a  heavy sigh. “So  what exactly  do you think  I should  do about
it?”

“I'm merely  a bank client,  a stranger.  It's hardly up  to me to  advise you
about your personal exploits.”

He let out another sigh, seeming at a loss to say more.

“Rochelle…” he  began in an imploring  tone that eroded into  a deep study
before he continued.  “I will talk to her—tomorrow—when I  have more time.
Is that what you want to hear?”

“Please don't think  you have to do  anything on my behalf.  It's your affair,
not mine.” She kept a placid expression on her face.





He sent her a  sharp look. “Okay, so maybe it was an  affair, of sorts, but it
was all one sided. I do not care for Caroline, never have.

I have  indicated that  thought to  her numerous  times. I  did not  pursue her,
Rochelle. She continued to pursue me regardless  of all the times I tried to let
her down gently. If that makes me a heel,  then so be it. I said I would talk to
her. What more can I say?” he asked with a questioning sweep of his arm.

“More aptly put, what  do you plan to say to  Caroline?” she mumbled beneath
her breath.

Michael did  not hear  her statement.  “If you're  finished with  breakfast, I
think we should go  find a car for you.” It was a  safe change of subject, and
one that relieved the tense atmosphere.

Rochelle knew that she really had no  right to offer input into Michael's affair
with Caroline, and never would have if  the girl had not nearly attacked her. In
less than  two days, she and  Michael were discussing his  personal affairs like
two disgruntled lovers.

Cars were a much safer subject.





Chapter Seventeen


The trip to Bozeman took less than an hour. Michael was in no rush, driving at a
pace slower than other  cars. This was the first entire day  taken off from work
in… he could not recall the last time he'd taken off. Maybe he had not taken a
day. His life had been so routine since the trial, he could just about chart his
activities for any particular time of day since he started running the bank. The
only variation to  his routine was the  time spent building his  house, which he
subcontracted out  and oversaw the  construction. Then there were  the occasions
when he and Caroline went out to eat, or came by and spent the night with him.

Everything that once  comprised his existence since the death  of his father and
stepmother  suddenly  seemed unimportant.  His  interest  lay in  the  beautiful
auburn-gold haired woman sitting on the seat  beside him. He was quite amazed at
how easily  she filled his  head, his mind, and  his senses. He  speculated that
perhaps the monotony of his dissatisfying lifestyle  was at the root of his deep
attraction for Rochelle. Whatever, he was hooked.

“Michael, do  you think they'll  deliver the car?  I'm not a  competent enough
driver  to drive  back on  this busy  highway, especially  in a  car I've  never
driven.”

He laughed at  her. “Rochelle, what good is  a car if you can't  drive it? You
might just as well forget the car. I'll be happy to chauffeur you,” he teased.

Her expression  soured, and Michael realized  immediately he had stepped  on his
tongue.

“Thank you, but I  only thought it would be better if I  learned to drive on a
less busy thoroughfare,” she snapped indignantly. “I haven't been behind the
wheel of a car for more than five years.

Surely,  you'll agree  a little  practice  driving might  be in  order before  I
venture into busy traffic.”

“I'm sorry, baby. I am certain they  will deliver the car. Do you mind telling
me how you got around without driving?”

“Please  do not  call me  baby. I  loathe the  word as  an endearment,”  she
ordered sharply. “I got around with a chauffer driving me.”

“I see.  Now, I don't  suppose you want  to tell me why  you don't want  to be
called baby?” Michael asked reservedly, glancing toward her from the corner of
his eyes.

“No, I do not,” she snapped in a piqued tone.





His quick  glance held  frosty amusement.  “Then I  apologize for  calling you
baby. If my endearments offend you, then perhaps it would be well for you to sit
down and make  out a list of everything  I am not supposed to say  that might be
offensive to  you. And  if you  think for a  minute that  I have  purposely said
anything that might imply mockery, then perhaps you could add that to your list,
too.”

He was grinning  wryly and glancing cockily  at Rochelle from the  corner of his
eye. When Rochelle looked at him, she knew he was teasing.

She  raised  her brows,  looking  at  him dryly,  a  stingy  grin softening  her
features. “Okay,  I get the picture.  I'm being a  pain, and I know  you don't
deserve it.” She faced him, a  placating expression on her face. “I'm sorry.
I suppose I was taking my frustrations out on you and I'm glad you didn't let me
get away with it.”

“Does that mean I  can call you baby? I really did mean  it in the nicest sort
of way.”

“I don't  like being called baby.  The word has negative  connotations which I
don't plan to discuss with you.”

“Why are you so secretive?

“I'm secretive for the  same reason you don't tell me all  there is about your
life. You've never told me much of  anything, Michael, but you know a great deal
about me.”

“Perhaps that's  because there's not  much to tell.”  The truth was  that he
simply  did  not like  discussing  his  past.  Like  everyone else,  there  were
skeletons in his closet best left undisturbed.  How could he tell her his father
and  stepmother were  murdered  and  the police  charged  him  with the  murder?
Rejected by  Stepmother was the  headline blasted across  the front page  of the
newspaper. The  assumption was that  he and Tina were  having an affair  and she
dumped him. Nothing could  have been farther from the truth!  That period of his
life  was  so  terrible that  he  hoped  to  God,  he never  faced  anything  as
humiliating again.

“Perhaps…” she said, letting the word  trail off her lips in an unfinished
thought.

“I  tell you  what,  let's  sign a  truce  and move  on  to  something we  can
discuss,” he said, taking her wrist and tugging her gently toward him.

“Such as?”

“Such as it gets lonely over here when you're way over there,”

he said teasingly.

“I'd like to sit over here.”

“Just come a little closer,” he cajoled, gently tugging at her arm.

“Do  you know  you  can hardly  buy  a car  anymore with  this  kind of  seat?
Everything has bucket seats now. I have  to take advantage of a good thing while
I can.”

With  a shrug,  she moved  closer, regarding  him with  a questioning  look, and
asking herself if  she had forgotten so  soon her silent advice  about keeping a
safe emotional distance from Michael.

“That's much better,” he said, pecking her  on the cheek and putting his arm
about  her shoulders.  A vision  of beautiful  bare breasts  flashed across  his
memory and the remembered touch of his  hands and lips upon silky soft skin. His
thermometer must have soared by twenty  degrees. It became an intimate moment as
he caught her looking up at him with a gentle expression of warmth. He wanted to
question her  about that morning,  her reaction to his  attempt to make  love to
her. The timing was all wrong, however, and the questions would have to wait.

Sitting so close to Michael, with his  arm across her shoulders, the faint smell
of his aftershave  teasing her nostrils, she remembered him  trying to make love
to her that  past morning. She had wanted  it to happen, needing to  know if she
were capable  of experiencing sexual pleasure  with a man. She  hated Tobias for
what he did to her, hated him for taking away the joy she might have experienced
through complete sexual surrender and fulfillment. Would it ever come? Would she
know the spiraling spring of passion,  and the convulsive completion such as she
had read about in books? Did that really happen to women?

They were  entering the city  limits of Bozeman  and traffic had  quickly become
heavier.  The weather  was  superb, slightly  cool, and  breezy  enough to  sway
treetops and send foliage dancing gaily.

“Have you thought about the kind of car you would like to have?”

Michael asked, trying to determine the best dealership to start with.

“I have no idea.”

At their first stop, Rochelle liked the  first car that the salesman showed her;
a blue sedan.  Even when she looked at  other cars, she kept coming  back to the
first one she saw.  Michael suggested they go to other  dealerships, but she had
made up  her mind. She wanted  the blue sedan. In  less than an hour,  they took
care of the transaction and arranged for the delivery of the car.

They went on  a shopping trip that  lasted long past noon,  and Rochelle finally
stopped buying  when she  decided there was  no more room  in Michael's  car for
further purchases.

With all  her bags and packages  loaded in the trunk  and back seat of  the car,
having  personal things  again boosted  her morale.  She felt  lighthearted. Not
since  high  school, when  she  and  her friends  found  gaiety  in many  simple
pleasures,  had she  enjoyed herself  quite as  much as  she had  thus far  with
Michael.  He was  jovial, cheerful,  and had  an easy  temperament making  him a
comfortable companion.

“I've really had  a nice day thus  far,” she told him. “I  know we've only
known each other a couple of days, but it seems like forever.”





“Well, if I  haven't known you forever,  I certainly want to,”  he said less
teasingly than usual.



IT WAS LATE AFTERNOON WHEN Michael turned off the road toward Windy Point.

“I'm tired,” Rochelle said, while Michael  helped carry her parcels into her
motel room. “I  think I'd like to  hang up my purchases, put  things away, and
take a long nap.”

“Aren't you going to model the negligee for me?” he asked with a mischievous
grin on his face. “After all, I did choose it for you.”

Ever since their outing last night, he had one thing on his mind.

“Michael, you're a  skillful manipulator, you are,” she  said, laughing, and
falling down on the bed with her arms stretched high above her head. “Oh, this
feels good.”

Michael sucked  in a  deep breath  of air.  She could  not possibly  realize how
seductive she was lying in such a reclining position.

God, he wanted to make love to her.

When she gave a long, relaxing stretch, the temptation was too much for Michael.
He lay  down on  the bed  next to  her. He  bent across  her torso,  his fingers
touching  her cheek.  “That  red hair  is gorgeous,”  he  said, running  his
fingers through its silky tresses.

Rochelle was about to say something, when  he quickly lowered his mouth to hers.
His hand  ran down  her side,  cupping her  hip, her  buttock, running  over her
thigh, tracing  his fingers  along the  inside toward  the triangle  between her
legs. Her  jeans were an  impediment to his touch.  The kiss continued,  until a
soft moan oozed from Rochelle's lips.

“I want you, Rochelle,” Michael said, his breath coming in short spurts.





She recalled her  reaction that morning when her fear  strangled their passions.
“We can't, Michael. We can't,” she said, pushing him away                  .

“Give me one good reason,” he said, his lips moving toward hers again.

She turned her face aside. “I just  can't. We barely know each other. Can't we
just be friends?”

He rolled over on his back, breathing in a big gulp of air. “Can't I even kiss
you?” he asked, sidestepping her question.

She did not answer.

He bent over toward her again, touched his mouth to her lips.

She pushed him away. “I'm afraid to get intimately close to you.

Involving you in my life could become too complicated.”

“And what if I say I'm already involved?” he asked, nuzzling her cheek.

“Then you're contradicting yourself. You said this afternoon that...”

“That was  then. This is  now,” he whispered  hoarsely. When she  would have
answered, he stopped her  words with his lips, holding her  in his embrace until
her arms snaked reluctantly around his neck.

The kiss deepened  and he felt her  response, timid and slow at  first. Then she
became like  raging heat beneath him,  her kiss as  hungry as his own.  The very
sight of  her lying  beneath him  kindled a fire  in his  blood that  flamed and
raged. His hand moved up her side again,  and he gave another groan as he cupped
her breast, his thumb nudging fire into the taut pink orb beneath her shirt. His
lips left  a chain of  kisses across  her cheek, down  her neck and  beneath her
throat, traveling even  lower, as he pulled  her shirt up above  her breast, and
reached behind her to undo her bra.

“No, Michael,” she pleaded as he lowered his mouth to her breast, his tongue
sending shivers along  her spine with electrical currents shooting  to her lower
abdomen. Her breath  was as ragged as  his was, and she could  feel his hardness
pressing against her hip.

“Just  let me  touch you,  kiss  you. Let  me show  you  what we  can be  like
together?” His  hand was  relentless, as  his lips and  mouth tested  her last
restraints. His  foreplay evoked tiny sounds  deep in her throat  and she pushed
her breast at him, now encouraging him.

Suddenly, he had an attack of conscience. She had said no, and meant it, even as
he continued to seduce her. He  could feel his thermostat temperature falling as
his mouth became still  at her breast. His caressing hand  that had sneaked into
her jeans slowly ceased plundering. With a groan of pure torture, he rolled onto
his back again,  pulling her over on his  chest. “Are you sure you  want me to
stop?” he asked, hoping she might say no.

“Yes, I  want you to stop.”  It was hard to  say, but she managed  to get it
out. Her skin felt flushed and looked rosy,  and she could feel a need so strong
that what she  really wanted to do  was encourage him not to  stop. Instead, she
took a deep breath and tried to  divert her attention from something too special
to describe.

He lay on the  bed holding her a long time, waiting for  his thermostat to cool,
daring not look  at her lest he do  the deed and reap the guilt  later. He could
feel her eyes upon  him, and if she knew how much they  served as an invitation,
she would turn  the other way. Instead, she  rose up on the bed  and touched his
shoulder.

“I'm sorry, Michael.”

She crawled off the  bed. Taking one of the shopping bags, she  dumped it on the
bed next to  him, and proceeded to  find a place for everything,  passing by the
foot of the bed to go put things  on hangers. Her round little butt in the tight
fitting jeans brought another groan from Michael's throat as he watched her.





Eventually, Michael went into the bathroom, splashed water on his face and dried
it with a towel, then  came out. He knew he had to get out  of there or he would
end up in bed with her again.

“I'll see you at seven,” he told her without asking if it was okay.

“We'll dress up so you can wear one of your new dresses.”

She nodded at him, watching him go out the door and pull it shut behind him. She
heard the sound of  his car engine, then the tires making  noise on the pavement
as he backed out and pulled away.

She sat thinking a long time before she remembered the unlocked door and went to
hook the chain and fasten the lock.

Her thoughts grew tormented,  but this time it had nothing to  do with Tobias or
the reason  she ran away.  It had to  do with Michael,  and with the  hunger and
raging  flames racing  through her  in  quivering fury  when he  had kissed  and
caressed her. It had to do with a  need lying dormant all the years that she was
with Tobias, a need born by Michael's touch and kisses.

She wanted him to make love to her.





Chapter Eighteen


Rochelle called the desk  and asked George to ring her at six,  which was only a
couple  of hours  away. Then  she lay  down after  hanging up  her new  clothes.
Exhausted from a sleepless night and the shopping activity, she fell fast asleep
within minutes.

The dreams  came pouring through her  sub-conscious as they always  did, and she
came awake to the muffled screams that struggled from her throat. It was five by
then, but she closed her eyes, trying to  force the memory of the dream from her
mind. It was  always the same, a  bronze casket setting against  the wall across
from the foot of her bed. She suspected someone was inside the casket, and tried
to call out to someone, anyone, to come investigate.

However, no  sound came  from her mouth.  She lay frozen  in a  catatonic state,
paralyzed with  fear, unable to  breathe. She  was suffocating, close  to death.
Dying…dying…

Awakening from the dream, gasping for air, she sat up in bed, struggling to suck
air into her lungs.

Her body underwent sheer trauma for  long minutes afterwards when she would open
her eyes expecting  to see the casket there.  It might just as well  have been a
brush with death as her lungs floundered from lack of oxygen.

Discouraged with trying to  finish her nap, she climbed from  the bed, turned on
the television, and went to the shower. She loved soap the way some people liked
perfume, and  she took the  wrapper from a  fresh bar and  smelled it. It  had a
marvelous scent  of sweet almond.  Soaping lavishly, the soft  fragrance scented
her skin with a pleasing perfumed aroma. The strong spray of water refreshed and
vitalized her. She thought of Michael,  feeling eager to see him, despite having
been with him a short while ago.

George called from the desk at six, and Rochelle thanked him.

She touched her face very lightly with foundation, traced her pale eyebrows with
an auburn mascara pencil, lavished brown  mascara on her long lashes, and rouged
her cheeks ever so slightly against the milky paleness of her skin. She put on a
soft pink lipstick and followed that with just a touch of the new perfume behind
her ears, in the bend of her elbows,  and behind her knees. The only jewelry she
wore was her  watch and a delicate  silver chain which she was  wearing when she
left Miami.

Having bought some hairpins  and a little silver comb for  her hair, she decided
to wear it up as she often did when she dressed up.

With plenty  of time  to spare,  she parted  the front  severely and  brushed it
tightly  against her  scalp. Then  she  swept the  long  strands up  in a  tight
chignon, pulling little  short sprigs out around her ears  and forehead to frame
her face. The effect  was as perfect as it was when done  by the hairdresser. It
literally transformed her from  the clean, scrubbed look of a  young girl into a
glamorous woman.

Putting on a matching set of underwear, a lace-trimmed white half-slip and panty
hose with high-heeled slippers, she chose  the dress she wanted to wear. Trimmed
with tiny straps that tied in bows on  the shoulders, it was pale beige and came
with a long brown stole. When she put  it on, she stood back to inspect herself,
pleased with her appearance.

At six-thirty,  she finished dressing  and sat  watching the television.  At six
forty-five, a soft tap sounded on the door.

Rochelle rushed over in front of the  mirror and glanced quickly at herself. She
touched a couple of  curls on her forehead, and then taking  a deep breath, went
to the door. As she turned the  doorknob, the thought flickered through her mind
that it might be Tobias. She opened it a crack and peeked outside before undoing
the chain.

Pulling the door open wide, she stepped aside to let Michael in.

Michael gawked in astonishment.

Instead of coming in, he took a  step backward. “My God!” he exclaimed, awed
by her glamour. There was no resemblance to the Rochelle of earlier, even though
absolutely nothing was wrong with that youthful impression of her then.

“Are  you coming  in, Michael?”  Rochelle  prompted, pulling  the door  open
wider, a lovely smile dimpling her cheeks.

“I don't think I'd better come in,” he said with a catch in his breath, Fire
smoldered in his blue eyes. “You look absolutely beautiful and delicious.”

“Thank you,” she  replied, pleased by his compliment.  Looking beautiful was
not exactly something new to Rochelle.  Being beautiful for Tobias had served as
an occupation for her. His expectations were for her to look like a model out of
a glamour magazine from the time she awoke  in the morning until she went to bed
at night, and  except for shopping, glamorizing herself had  comprised her daily
activity.

“If you're ready, we'll go,” he said, sucking in a breath of air and letting
it out. She  grabbed her lovely new  purse, transferred her things  from her old
purse, and then draped the stole over her shoulders.

When she  moved toward the  door, ready to go,  Michael reached out  and stopped
her. Taking her into  his arms, he crushed her against  him, his hands spreading
over her buttocks to draw her close to him.

He looked at her shiny, lush lips,  wanting to kiss her. With a shuddering shake
of his head, he withdrew, willing himself not to muss her makeup.

The gentle  little girl that Michael  had escorted earlier wore  many faces. She
was witty, funny,  sensual, gentle, and could be spirited,  as demonstrated when
they shopped  for her clothing,  both of  them laughing and  enjoying themselves
like  a couple  of  kids. He  had  also seen  touches of  defiance,  as well  as
sensitivity,  and the  traces of  deep pain.  She was  a storm  of conflicts,  a
mixture of  contrasts, and more  than anything  else, she was  breathtaking. Her
auburn-gold hair, with  every strand in place,  was like a regal  crown upon her
head.

“Can  we go  back to  the Steak  House so  we can  dance?” she  asked as  he
escorted her to the  door. She noticed how elegant he looked  in his casual blue
sports coat, a polo shirt, and tanned trousers.

“That sounds  good to  me.” Michael's  intention was  to take  her somewhere
other than  the Steak  House, somewhere  less patronized by  people he  knew. He
realized Rochelle would cause a gigantic stir dressed as she was now and looking
so gorgeous.

By tomorrow, not a  man, woman, or child would have escaped  the rumors from the
grapevine. People would have the two of them paired as inseparable. Actually, he
did not mind that  so much, would have been honored by  it, except her situation
was precarious,  to say the  least. Circumstances  could force Rochelle  to take
flight at any time. That was ever  in Michael's thoughts, and he realized it had
become a threat to his peace of mind.

The scent she wore was heady and  intoxicating, leaving his senses reeling as he
tucked his arm about her to escort  her inside the Steak House. They were inside
the  door no  more  than a  couple  of minutes  before a  hush  fell across  the
restaurant, and  heads began turning  for a  better look, people  scraping their
chairs on the floor to twist about  to gain a good viewing position. If Rochelle
noticed, she pretended not to as she smiled up at Michael's face.

“This lovely creature can't be the same young lady who was here last night?”
Ken questioned, not bothering to hide his lazy eye-sweeping appreciation.

Rochelle smiled.

“Is our  same table  from last  night vacant,  Ken?” Michael  asked, looking
across the room.

“It will be in a minute if you'll give me a few seconds,” he said, and spoke
to a waiter.

The waiter went across  the room with an empty tray, explained  to the two young
people who sat there  that they had been mistakenly seated  at a reserved table,
and then  he moved their food  and drinks to  another table. When the  table was
emptied, wiped,  and a  clean tablecloth  put on  it, Michael  escorted Rochelle
across the room, a buzz of whispering following in their wake.





The whole  town had  joked and made  bets in the  past on  how soon it  might be
before the love  bug caught Michael and changed his  bachelorhood status. People
were certain  now that it had  finally happened. No one  recalled seeing Michael
with anyone quite as charming as the  young woman he presently escorted. If they
were  impressed  last evening  when  she  was in  her  jeans,  they were  doubly
impressed tonight.  She floated on Michael's  arm as if she  belonged there, and
Michael's obvious pride reflected boldly in the way he looked at her.

Soon after  they sat down, the  waiter brought menus, and  shortly thereafter, a
bottle of champagne Michael ordered. The waiter poured it in flutes and Rochelle
lifted hers  to her  pink lips,  sipping daintily. Michael,  on the  other hand,
became introspective, his attention thoughtful.

“You're very quiet, Michael.”

“I was thinking about you,” he said, gazing into her eyes.

“Chelle, I want to know you better.”

“Isn't that why we're having dinner together?”

He reached over and covered her hand with his. “I want to know why you were so
afraid when I tried to make love to you this morning.”

She pulled her hand away, a sudden  rush of memories flooding through her brain.
She did not want to think about the  kind of things Michael wanted to hear. Even
thinking about the horrible things Tobias had  done to her made her feel somehow
tainted. Her sexual life with Tobias was  a subject she chose to avoid. “I had
a  long sleepless  night  and was  tired this  morning,”  she said  evasively,
looking away to avoid eye contact.

“Okay,  I get  the  picture. You  choose  not to  talk about  it,  but I  know
tiredness was  not the problem. You  were completely responsive one  minute, and
then shaking like a jack hammer the next.”

She pursed her lips and took a deep breath through her nostrils.

“Michael, if this discussion continues, then I think I'd rather leave now.”

“Chelle, you've got too many secrets.”

“That may  be, but  they are  my secrets, and  they'll stay  that way  until I
decide otherwise.”

Michael backed off, knowing he would ruin  their evening if he continued in that
vein.  He poured  more  champagne in  their  flutes, and  watched  her down  her
glassful in one  drink. He poured it  full again. The bottle was  empty when the
waiter brought their dinner.

The  waiter served  the green  salad along  with everything  else, setting  down
plates of  thinly sliced roast  beef served in its  own gravy, mounds  of mashed
potatoes, steaming green beans, and hot buttered rolls. Michael ordered a bottle
of wine.

Rochelle  drank  the  wine  as  thirstily as  she  had  the  champagne,  seeming
introspective now after Michael mentioned her nervousness of the past morning.

By the time they finished eating  the band had arrived. The musicians circulated
a few minutes, greeting customers before  setting up their instruments. A couple
of  the musicians  stopped by  Michael and  Rochelle's table,  spoke briefly  to
Michael and was introduced to Rochelle.

“What songs do you like, Chelle?” asked one of the guys.

“I especially liked the  one you played for us last night,  but we enjoyed all
your music.” She gave them an appreciative smile.

“You're new around here, aren't you?” asked Oliver

“You might say that. I was here once before, a long time ago.”

“Where do you come from?”

“The east,” she lied, and felt Michael's eyes staring at her.





Glancing behind him, John, the drummer, could  see the room filling as the later
crowd started coming in. “Well, I suppose it's time to go to work,” he said,
and reached out his hand to Rochelle. “It's nice to meet you.”

“If you  have a  request, just give  a holler,” Oliver  said as  they walked
away.

Michael stood up, pulled the table away from the wall, and put their chairs side
by side. “Any objections?” he asked after  they sat back down and he put his
arm about Rochelle.

“Only one,” she said glancing up at the air vent just above them.

“I'm cold.”

Michael smiled. “I think  I can take care of that.” He  wrapped his arm more
snuggly around her.

They danced frequently after the music  began in earnest. The evening passed all
too quickly. When  it came time to  leave, the warm embraces on  the dance floor
contributed to a mounting anticipation growing between Michael and Rochelle.

While  Michael's  warm,  hard  body contact  started  breaking  down  Rochelle's
resistance long before they got back to  her motel, she found herself gearing up
expectantly  to the  culmination of  the evening.  She wanted  to know  what her
body's  response would  be, how  it  would react  to gentleness  instead of  the
torturous pain and repulsive acts Tobias forced  upon her. She wanted to know if
something was wrong  with her that kept her from  reaching sexual gratification;
or was her problem caused merely by Tobias's sexual abuse?

For the time  being, with Michael's arms constantly around  her, she knew desire
like a sweet warm ache. She also knew she wanted Michael to make love to her.





Chapter Nineteen


A beautiful bright moon shone from a blanket of glimmering stars.

A night wind blew up causing the green  shrubbery in front of the motel to dance
gracefully. It was a  night made for lovers, Michael thought.  He glanced at the
door of the motel room, thought about that  bed just inside, and knew if he ever
went  past the  threshold,  he would  never  leave  until he  had  made love  to
Rochelle.  Recalling  her previous  resistance,  he  thought  it best  to  avoid
temptation.

“I don't think I'd  better come in,” he said when he  walked Rochelle to her
motel door. He  cupped her face in  his hands and gently touched  her cheek with
his lips.

Rochelle gazed at him, hiding her  disappointment. His announcement was not what
she expected. Riding home, snuggled up close against Michael, she was certain he
would attempt  intimacy with  her. Too  needy now to  appreciate his  wanting to
protect her from his strong sexuality,  she merely nodded. Turning to unlock the
door, she stepped inside.

Michael turned and went toward his car.

Rochelle locked the door behind her,  realizing he had not kissed her goodnight.
Neither  did he  mention seeing  her the  coming day,  even though  he told  her
earlier he would take her to see the realtor tomorrow. Leaning against the door,
regretting his leaving, a sense of loneliness overcame her.

Michael went to his car and shoved the key in the ignition. He turned it and the
car started up immediately,  but for the life of him, he could  not put the gear
in reverse to back out of the parking space.

Every bit  of his common sense  told him to back  the car out and  leave, but he
continued sitting there, the minutes ticking away.





Finally, he turned the ignition off, nurturing a need as old as humanity.

Rochelle stripped  off her clothing,  hanging everything on hangers.  She kicked
off her  slippers and peeled off  her panty hose and  slip. She was down  to her
lace bikinis, and quickly donned her robe when the knock sounded on her door.

Tensing, she let out a startled gasp,  frightened over who it might be. The fear
of Tobias finding her continually played on her mind.

With Michael leaving only minutes earlier, she reasoned that it couldn't be him.
She edged toward  the door, listening for several seconds  before she whispered,
“Yes?”

“It's me, Rochelle. Michael. I forgot something.”

She let out a breath of relief  and happiness suddenly flowed through her like a
heady brew. With fingers flying, she took the chain off and opened the door just
a crack.  He was leaning  up against the doorjamb,  more casual looking  than he
actually felt.

“Michael?”  she  said  breathlessly.  “You frightened  me.  What  did  you
forget?”

He pushed the door back and stepped inside, closing and locking it behind him.

“This,” he said throatily, taking her in his arms and kissing her lips. “I
forgot to kiss you good night.” He planted several little kisses upon her soft
face and pink lips. Then his lips consumed her mouth, sending fire to his groin.
He pushed the robe off her shoulders so it slid down to the floor. Then trailing
a chain of  kisses down her breasts  and stomach, he pushed the  panties down to
her feet.

Rochelle went into  his arms, her head  thrown back, while she  delighted to the
warm sensations brought  on by Michael's kisses and  intimate caresses. Thoughts
ceased  to exist,  replaced with  the heightening  sensibilities and  sensations
washing over her. Her breath became ragged as he moved back so he could see her,
consuming  all of  her with  his  eyes. Her  soft  warmth fired  his blood  with
white-hot  streaks of  lightning. Time  seemed of  essence as  he threw  off his
clothes and lowered her  to the bed. His warm fingers  stirred her to shimmering
ecstasy until she was purring in his  ear like a warm kitten, her sounds muffled
only by his wet kisses as his tongue thrust into the moist cavern of her mouth.

Each movement was new, innocent and fresh  in a glorious voyage of discovery for
the two of  them. Michael's hands, lips,  and kisses trailed over  every inch of
Rochelle's body sending liquid fire spiraling downward into her loins. Willingly
she sank  below the  waves of rapture,  and yearned for  the completion  she was
certain he  could give her.  When his  hands and mouth  left her feeling  like a
spring  winding tighter  and tighter,  she  murmured his  name repetitiously  as
rising sensations promised to be a miracle never before experienced.

Responding, he moved on  top of her, his knee pressing  between her thighs until
she opened to  him. He entered her slowly, feeling  the moist tightness surround
him and contract to milk him further inside her. He knew he had died and gone to
heaven, for nothing  in his memory ever  felt so wonderful. Not  wanting to rush
this bit of  paradise he luxuriated in,  he lay perfectly still  inside her, his
mouth seeking a  taut pink nipple, his  hand cupping the other  breast while his
thumb evoked erotic  tingles in her blood,  her body stirring and  moving like a
serpent beneath his.

Then unable to retain  his own pleasure any longer, he thrust in  and out of her
with a rhythm  that sent friction tingling  through the nerves of  each of their
bodies. Her  hips rose  and fell in  unison with his,  meeting his  thrusts then
ascending with passionate response.

When he  felt her contractions  grow strong about his  manhood, he knew  she was
reaching her  peak, and he thrust  harder, ready to surrender  to that spiraling
blast of intense  heat similar to an  erupting volcano. They both  clung to each
other, a  bundle of convulsive  and shuddering  spirals unwinding together  in a
blending of heated and relaxing fulfillment that was unequaled by anything else.

Michael  put off  disengaging himself  from  her. He  wanted to  keep her  there
pressed tightly against him, now, forever. He had tasted paradise.

He lay a long  time propped upon his elbows above her,  his lips pressed against
her neck.  When he turned on  his side next to  her, holding her as  close as he
could in  his arms, and  kissing her lips, face  and cheeks, she  stared through
eyes that sparkled with a kind of awe when she looked at him.

“Are you  okay?” he whispered softly,  holding her with a  gentleness he had
not known he possessed.

She pulled his  head against her bosom  and bent to kiss  his forehead. Moisture
filled  her eyes,  the moment  as poignant  as any  ever spent.  “That's never
happened  to me  before,” she  whispered. “It  was the  only part  of me  he
couldn't control, and he hated me for it. I was afraid it might never happen.”

He raised his head,  seeing such purity on her face,  her confession raising his
pride in  his performance to unspeakable  heights. She lay as  humble and docile
next  to him  now  as  the kitten  she  reminded him  of  when  she was  purring
passionate little moans in his ear. “Never?” he echoed, brushing his fingers
along her cheek.

“Never,” she replied through a warm intimate smile.

“Now, that you've told me that, I don't think I want to go sleep in my bed all
alone,” he said, holding her against him.

“I never  realized it could  be like  this.” There was  no shame in  her, no
shyness as she  looked at him, brushing her fingers  against his hair, smoothing
it back from his forehead, pasting kisses upon his cheek and lips.





“Rochelle love...” he groaned, holding her tightly.

She finally pulled away from him, crawling off the bed to head for the bathroom.
She used a bottle of douche liquid,  which she had foreseen the need to purchase
earlier that day, and washed herself, as was her habit with Tobias.

When she  came from the bathroom,  she wrapped her  robe about her, and  went to
stand before Michael where  he sat on the edge of the bed.  He had pulled on his
briefs, looking most thoughtful when she  first glimpsed him. When he looked up,
he smiled. He buried  his face against her abdomen, wrapping  his arms about her
hips and buttocks as  she stood between his legs. He smelled  the clean smell of
her fragrant soap, and he parted her robe  and kissed her on her navel, his lips
traveling lower until a  soft sound escaped her throat, and  she lifted his head
with her hand beneath his chin.

“Don't you have to go to work  tomorrow?” she asked as his tongue did things
to her navel, sparking fresh new flames inside her.

“Only if you'll agree to be my  personal secretary and sit across from my desk
from me,” he teased, nuzzling his face against her flat abdomen.

She lifted  his chin again,  until their  eyes met, and  she smiled at  him, her
teeth sparkling. She  took his hands and  he came to his feet,  his arms quickly
gathering her against his strong hard chest matted with dark hair.

As if he were not already holding her tight enough, he squeezed her in his arms,
desire draining all  reason. He pulled her back  down on the bed on  top of him,
holding her there  until his body ached  all over with need. Rolling  her on her
back, he covered her face with kisses, spreading her robe open on either side of
her.

Rochelle felt his gaze sweep over her, leaving a shy, confined heat in its wake.





There was no  rush this time, the two  of them moving with a  rhythm that spread
fire  through  both their  loins  leaving  a  flame  of sensuous  thrills.  Such
tenderness  as Michael  demonstrated was  completely  new to  Rochelle, and  she
basked in the sweet joy of learning about and enjoying normal sex. Reaching that
wonderful peak again, and the ensuing  sense of completion, she dared to believe
her life might eventually reach a point of normalcy.

He rolled off her and pulled her next  to him. “If it weren't for the gossips,
I'd take you home with me.”

Rochelle smiled, but  said nothing. That possibility was  definitely out. Tobias
would be a  dangerous enemy to any man  involved with her, and she  did not want
Michael's home to become an arena.

Michael found his briefs and trousers and pulled them on, then his shirt. He had
left his  jacket in  the car, so  he sat down  and put  on his shoes  and socks.
Standing, he  pulled her into  his arms.  “I'd stay the  night with you  if it
wouldn't jeopardize your reputation.

However, the longer my car sets outside, the more chance of gossip.

Will you have breakfast with me at seven?” He reached to open the door.

This had been one of the most important nights of Rochelle's life. Learning that
she  was sexually  inadequate was  exciting knowledge.  She had  her arms  about
Michael's neck, wishing he could stay the night.

He brushed her hair behind her ear and kissed her throat.

“I should have bought  an alarm clock. It's too late to ask  George for a wake
up call.”

“You don't need one. I can call you. Schell…” he started to say something,
but changed his mind.  Instead, he said, “Sleep tight and I'll  see you in the
morning.” With  that, he gave her  a good night  kiss and backed out  the door
until he was at the hood of his car.  With a sigh, he turned, went around to the
driver's side and opened the car door.

Rochelle closed and locked her door.

She put on  her gown and lay  upon the bed, noticing Michael's  manly scent upon
the pillow. She hugged  it in her arms, it touching her cheek  so the pale scent
of spicy aftershave filled her nostrils.

Grasping the pillow tighter, she closed  her eyes dreamily, recalling the wonder
of her  captivating experience and basking  in the glory of  it. Eventually, she
slept.





Chapter Twenty


Michael drove  from the motel  to his house by  rote since his  mental faculties
were concentrated  on Rochelle.  He had  not wanted to  leave her,  desiring her
company so enthusiastically he might have stayed the night except for the gossip
mongers who would have had a field day at seeing his car parked at the motel all
night.

He was pulling into the driveway at his home when something caught his attention
just before he turned the headlights out.  When he trained his sight more fully,
he saw someone sitting on the front door  stoop. He glanced around for a car and
saw it nearly hidden behind trees toward one  end of the house. He looked at his
watch.  It was  nearly two  o'clock in  the morning,  and he  swore beneath  his
breath. There was only one person he knew who would be waiting for him.

Caroline!

He cursed.

Reluctant to encounter her, he dreaded a  confrontation he could just as well do
without tonight. He slowly got out of  his car and walked toward her. Pausing in
front a few feet from her, she came to her feet and faced him in the dim outside
lighting. Michael  was unable to  keep the annoyance  from his expression  as he
observed her arms folded  across her chest. The outside light  next to the front
door cast eerie  shadows on Caroline's features, and Michael  could tell she had
come for battle.

“Well, it's about time you came home. I've been waiting for hours, Michael,”
she thundered tersely, her voice accusing and angry.

One of Michael's dark brows lifted. “Why were you waiting, Caroline? I thought
you said all  there was to say in  town this morning.” He walked  past her and
put the key  in the lock. He turned  the knob, pushed the door  open, and walked
inside after he flipped the light switch on.

Caroline followed. She could smell the bitch's perfume on him.

“I came to apologize. I'm sorry I acted the way I did.”

Michael tossed his head so he could see her over his shoulder.

He snorted,  and the sound erupted  into a cynical chuckle.  “Caroline, you've
never been sorry a day in your life for anything you did.”

“Michael, I've come all  this way to offer you a sincere  apology, and all you
do is mock  me.” She was so angry  she wanted to scratch his eyes  out, but it
would not  gain her  what she  wanted. Her intention  was to  hold onto  him, if
possible.

Michael picked up a stack of mail tossed on the table earlier.

“Your apology isn't necessary, Caroline. Just go home. It's late.” He sorted
through the mail, not really seeing it, but using it as a diversion.

Caroline inched closer to  Michael, her eyes imploring him to  hear what she had
to say. When she was within reach, she laid a hand upon his arm. When he made no
effort  to withdraw,  she threw  her arms  up around  his neck.  “I love  you,
Michael. I  was wrong to act  the way I  did. I know  you have the right  to see
anyone you want.”

Michael took a deep breath. He felt completely indifferent to Caroline. He stood
with his hands loosely  hanging by his side, his face etched  in mockery of what
Caroline was saying. His whole attitude yearned to push her away, to rid himself
of her arms clinging around his neck.  Feeling, however, that perhaps he did owe
her some measure of courtesy, he simply tried to reason with her.

“Caroline, I never intended to hurt you, but you knew from the beginning there
were no strong ties between us.”

“That's  not so,  Michael,” she  cried out,  nuzzling her  face against  his
cheek. “We've been seeing each other for  a year now. I love you. What exactly
did you expect to happen in that length of time?”

He raised his arms and grasped her  shoulders, gently pushing her away from him.
“It's no good, Caroline.  Whatever was between us is over. You  have to let it
go and move on.”

“You wouldn't say that if you hadn't just come from her,” she shouted, anger
rising in her voice even as she tried to hide it from him.

“Where I've  been is none  of your  business, Caroline!” he  replied calmly,
putting  a chair  between  them, his  hands pressed  tightly  against the  back.
“Just go home. I have to get some sleep.”

“Can't we just talk, Michael?” Her voice was high-pitched and harsh.

Michael shook  his head.  “There's absolutely  nothing for  us to  talk about.
Look, we have enjoyed  some times together, but I have  never deceived you. I've
made you no promises, no commitments, and now it's finished.”

Her facial features contorted into a snarl.  “Finished like hell, you son of a
bitch! You have been with her all evening, haven't you?





Did you sleep  with her? No,” she  said raising her hand, “don't  tell me. I
know you damn well  did. Her perfume and scent is clinging  to you.” She broke
into a torrent of tears, and crumpled to her knees, hoping to draw some sympathy
from him.

Michael looked at her dejectedly. Walking over to her, he lifted her by her arms
to a standing position.  She fell against him, throwing her  arms about his neck
again. “Michael,  I know  you care  about me. You  have made  love to  me, and
touched and held me.

How can you do that without having some feelings for me?”

“Caroline after what you  told me on the phone yesterday, I  don't see how you
can feel anything for  me except revulsion. What was the term  you used, my hand
pawing at you? How in the hell do you  think that makes a man feel? Do you think
I'd ever want to touch you again?”

“I didn't mean  it. You know how I am  when I am upset. I always  say things I
don't mean. But I love you, and I know you still care for me.”

“I care for you,  Caroline, but it's not the kind of caring  you want from me,
and I just can't give you anything else. It is just not there.

It never was.”

A cold sneer rose from her lips to her eyes. “Was she better than me, Michael?
I have heard men say they all feel alike once you're inside. Was hers any better
than mine?”

“Get out,  Caroline,” he ordered, taking  her arm and moving  her toward the
door. “Your words repulse me,” he added venomously.

She swirled about and began pounding his  chest. “I want let you get away with
this you  son of a  bitch. You've used  me, and I'll find  some way to  make you
pay.”

He grabbed her wrists, holding them to stop her attack.

“I hate you, Michael Matheson, for using me  like you did. I hate you, you son
of a bitch!”





In a calm voice,  he tried to reason with her. “Caroline,  if you will recall,
it was you  who always came over here  and offered yourself to me.  I never, not
even once, attempted to  take you to bed except when you  initiated it. You need
to ask yourself  who used who. I  thought we were mutually agreeable  on the sex
part, so how was I to know you didn't  enjoy it. Do you think I would ever touch
you again, knowing how you really feel?”

“I never said I didn't want any part of it.”

“Isn't that  what you're saying  now? How could I  possibly have used  you, if
it's what you wanted?”

“Well, you know what I mean.”

“No, I  don't know  what you mean.  I do  not think I  ever really  have. Your
feelings change as  swiftly as your temper,  and frankly, I have  felt its brunt
once too often. Go home, Caroline. There's nothing else I can say to you.”

“You'll pay  for this,  Michael. I  swear you'll  pay,” she  threatened, and
stomped out the door, slamming it behind her as hard as she could.

Michael locked the door, and let out a long breathy sigh. He truly hoped tonight
would finish it. He just was not up to any further battles with Caroline.

Going to his kitchen, he took the  bottle of bourbon from the cabinet and poured
a couple of fingers  into the glass. He turned it up and  downed it all at once,
following  it  with  some  water.  The  mood  from  earlier  disintegrated  with
Caroline's untimely  visit. The stupidity of  it all, he thought  now, it wasn't
the first time he and Caroline had done battle. She had attacked him with verbal
accusations and abuses frequently without provocation. Why he had put up with it
as long as he  had, he did not know. Every one of  his friends encouraged him to
end it, and fool that he was he simply let things go on as they were.





His thoughts flitted back  to the motel room, to Rochelle,  to her draped figure
on the bed  in one of her  long gowns, her auburn-gold hair  cascading about her
head on  the pillow,  the vision  easing the  unrest that  had raised  his blood
pressure.

He took a hot  shower, brushed his teeth and went to  bed; the tumbling thoughts
in  his head  slow  to  bow to  sleep.  Just before  he  fell  sleep, the  clock
registered less than  three hours before the  alarm would go off.  He would feel
like hell, knowing he had a busy day ahead of him.



MICHAEL STRUGGLED OUT of peaceful slumber at  the sound of his alarm. With great
effort, he  climbed out  of bed,  and splashed  cold water  on his  face, slowly
coming awake.

At six-thirty, he called Rochelle.

Since  she was  a slow  riser, she  was barely  out of  the shower  when Michael
knocked on her  door. With a towel  wrapped about her torso,  she called through
the door. “Michael?”

“Yes, it's me, Chelle.”

She opened the door and let him in. “I'm sorry I'm not ready.”

His answer  was to take her  in his arms. “Have  I told you how  wonderful you
were last night?” he asked, gazing deeply into her eyes.

“No, but I think I like hearing it,” she said, smiling up at him.

“Did I tell you how wonderful you were?”

“Did you ever! You made my whole world light up.”

She smiled up at him, pleased with his reply.

“Go get dressed,  or I might forget there's  a good reason why we  need to get
out of here shortly.”

“I wanted  to be ready when  you got here, but  I've always been one  of those
people who try to grab another five minutes of sleep, then another, and another,
until I simply forget to get up. If you are in a hurry, you can go without me. I
can walk and catch up later.”

“Take your time. I'll wait, but I do  have to go to the bank this morning when
we finish breakfast. I  also plan to take you to the realtor's  office to see if
Ruth or John Shipley can show you around.

When you finish, stop by the bank. Your car should be delivered by then.”

She chose a pair  of dark slacks and a sleeveless  blouse with delicate buttons.
She left the top button undone so  the opening gave the barest hint of cleavage.
She  brushed  her hair  until  it  was  shiny and  fluffy,  put  on a  touch  of
foundation, mascara  and lipstick, and  was ready to  go after sliding  her feet
into a pair of sandals.

“That only took you fifteen minutes,” Michael said, looking at his watch.

“But I rushed, and I feel as though I'm forgetting something.”

“You can  come back  if you  need to,” he  said, touching  the point  of his
finger  into  the cleavage  where  the  unbuttoned  blouse gaped  open.  “Nice
blouse.” He smiled, as his eyes sluiced from her head to her toe, appreciating
how well she looked no matter what she wore.

Rochelle looked  at him. He  was dressed in a  charcoal suit, his  tall muscular
form seeming to have an air of authority this morning.

He was  incredibly handsome dressed  as he was,  but remembering him  naked, she
decided there was  no comparison. Last night  he had belonged to  her. Today his
dark suit reminded  her that he did  have other obligations of which  she had no
part.

Michael ushered Rochelle toward the door after she grabbed her purse. “Are you
hungry?”

“Famished, but my habit is to breakfast at lunch time.”

“A late sleeper, huh?”

“Fashioned from a lifestyle of late nights  that was a habit of my husband and
his friends.”





Michael felt a  stab of jealously. The  very thought of her  husband holding her
like he  had done last  night brought bitter bile  to his throat.  Jealously had
never been  part of his  nature, and for  the first time,  he had just  seen the
green-eyed monster. He opened the car  door, smelling her perfume as she lowered
herself to the seat.

“Did you sleep well last night?” he inquired when he slid under the steering
wheel.

Glancing toward him, she sent him a shy, captivating smile.

“Like a baby.”

An impudent grin curved the corners of his lips.

“Don't say  it!” she interrupted his  thoughts before he could  say whatever
was lurking there.

“I was just going to say I'm glad you had a good night,” he grinned.

“Did you sleep well?”

Caroline's face  jumped to his  mind. If  he looked as  haggard as he  felt, she
would know he was lying if he said yes. “Wonderful,” he said.

“Good! I didn't even have my usual nightmare last night.”

His impudent grin  was in place again. “We'll just  have to keep administering
the same dosage of sleeping potion as last night.”

She cuffed  him on the sleeve  with the palm of  her hand. “You never  take me
seriously,” she chided with a chuckle.

He  crushed  her  against  him.  “Oh,  but  you're  wrong.  I  take  you  very
seriously.”





Chapter Twenty-One





The restaurant was only a coin's throw from the motel, and Michael pulled into a
parking space in front. With his usual  good manners, he went around to open the
car door  for Rochelle.  At the  same time,  an unshaved  fellow with  a two-day
growth of beard, who was about  Michael's age, was heading toward the restaurant
door. He  was dressed causally in  a pair of  jeans and T-shirt that  hung loose
outside his pants, which appeared soiled with aged dirt and grime.

When he saw Michael, he paused and stood  staring at him with a not too friendly
expression on his face.

“Matheson, I can't  believe you're still around these parts.”  The man spoke
in a  rather taunting voice.  “I thought you would  still be locked  up,” he
remarked, a cigarette dangling from his thin lips.

“Wayne, we said  all we needed saying a  long time ago. Why don't  you just go
crawl back in the hole where you have been hiding.

No one wants you around here.”

“What's wrong, Matheson, you  afraid I might end up finding  where you hid the
gun?”

“No, Wayne. I'm afraid I might end up  breaking your skull and having to go to
jail for it. Now if you'll excuse me,  I have much better things to do than pass
time the time of day with you.”

Rochelle felt very uncomfortable with  the conversation going on between Michael
and the man as  she climbed from the car, waiting while  Michael pushed the door
shut behind  her. With his arm  protectively encircling her, they  headed toward
the restaurant door. The man named Wayne pulled the door open for them.

“Nice piece you got there, Matheson. Is she as good as your step mom?”

With the speed  of lightning, Michael grabbed Wayne's shirtfront,  drew back his
fist, and sent it crashing into the man's face.

Wayne went rollicking backwards  where he lost his balance and  fell flat on his
butt. He wiped his  hand across his bloodied lip and nose,  and struggled to get
back up.

“I'm warning you, Wayne, just keep the hell away from me!”

Michael cursed.

The  ruckus brought  several people  hurrying  from inside  the restaurant.  The
proprietor was first on  the scene. “Wayne, if you were  planning on coming in
my restaurant, you can just forget it.

Your kind is not welcome here. Just go  on about your business now, or I'll call
Sheriff Rollins to put you on your way.”

“Like hell! You need to call him to  come lock Matheson's ass up. The man just
assaulted  me.” He  had finally  made  it to  his  feet, and  he edged  toward
Michael, his fists balled so tightly the knuckles were white.

Two big burly men, looking like they might be truckers who lifted weights on the
side, stepped  forward. Their  heights even dwarfed  Michael who  stood slightly
above six  feet, and  their muscular proportions  were awesome,  especially when
viewed standing together. Moving  in, with one on either side  of the man called
Wayne,  each grabbed  an arm  and lifted  him  two feet  off the  ground so  his
sneaker-clad feet dangled in the air. “Now, Wayne, me and Joe here don't think
you want to start trouble this morning.

Tell us where your car is and we'll help you to it, because if you don't get the
hell out of here, you ain't going to be able to.”

Either Wayne knew the men, or he knew they were serious. He pointed his bleeding
nose in the direction of a dirty pickup truck, and the two burly men carried him
to it, dumping him unceremoniously beneath  the wheel. They stood there until he
started the engine, backed out on the street, and headed away from town.

Michael took a handkerchief from his pocket, and wiped the blood from his bloody
fist. He  glanced toward Rochelle  who stood next to  the car, hugging  her arms
about her chest.  With a faint shrug,  he walked to where she  stood and touched
her upper arm with his hand.

“You okay?” he asked, his grim expression softening.

Rochelle nodded, and then reached for his hand. “I'm okay, but are you?” She
inspected his hand.

“It's okay,” he replied, tugging his fingers from her grasp.

He escorted  Rochelle inside the  restaurant where the  smell of fried  eggs and
bacon clung to the air. The pulse  at Michael's throat throbbed rapidly, and his
jaws clenched so tightly his face appeared carved in hard marble.

Sally was waiting  with two cups of  steaming coffee when they came  in, and she
followed them to  a table. “Michael, are you all  right?” she asked, setting
the coffee down and handing them menus.

“Yeah,  sure,” he  grumbled, wanting  to forget  the fracas.  He could  only
imagine  what  kind  of  impression  all these  confrontations  were  having  on
Rochelle. Yesterday it was Caroline, and today it was Wayne. Every day presented
a new encounter, or so it must seem to her.

The  two big  musclemen came  in and  stopped at  Michael and  Rochelle's table.
“Mike, you okay?” asked the one with the receding hairlin                 e.

“Yeah, I'm  fine, Curly,”  he said,  examining his fist  where the  skin was
slightly torn  on the  knuckles. “Thanks,  fellows,” he  said with  a little
chuckle that belied the anger tightening his brows.

“You gave him a  good one, Mike,” the one called Joe  said and laughed. “I
just wish you would have hit him more  squarely in the nose and took off an inch
or two. You'd better soak that hand in something or it'll get mighty sore,” he
added as though he knew exactly what he was talking about from experience. Then,
glancing at Rochelle and giving a polite  nod, he added, “Ma'am, sorry for the
inconvenience.” The  two men  went on  past to their  table where  their cold,
half-finished breakfast awaited them.

Sally came hurrying  over with a warm  towel for Michael to use  for his scraped
fists. Michael thanked her and proceeded to clean away the blood.

Throughout the entire  incident, Rochelle had been an observer,  albeit, a tense
one.  It was  not hard  to discern  that some  sort of  difficulty had  occurred
between  Michael and  Wayne.  She  also gathered  Michael's  animosity was  more
intense than Wayne's was.

She watched Michael surreptitiously, trying not  to stare, and wondered what his
story was. He  had completely evaded sharing any personal  information with her,
and she  knew little more  about his life  now than she  had the first  time she
walked into his bank; notwithstanding his affair with Caroline.

Sally  took  their  orders,  touching Rochelle  comfortingly  on  her  shoulder.
“Don't be  upset,” she  said, seeing  the worried  look in  Rochelle's eyes.
“Wayne has always been a trouble maker.”

One thing  was certain in  this little town,  Rochelle decided; everyone  was on
Michael's side. Yesterday,  the confrontation was with Caroline  and friends had
come to his defense.  Today, it was with Wayne, and no  one faulted Michael even
though he  had belted the  guy. Wayne's remark  was risqué, however.  It caused
Rochelle to wonder if Michael was offended on her behalf, or his stepmother's.

If it was the  stepmother, what dark secrets were capable of  bringing on such a
violent response as Michael demonstrated?

When Sally  went away,  Michael lowered  his chin,  his mood  very solemn  as he
stared into  his coffee, keeping his  jaws clamped tight. Rochelle  gazed at him
fondly, but  an uncomfortable silence filled  the space between them.  The noise
about them  resumed, but Michael  seemed absorbed by  more than his  and Wayne's
confrontation. Rochelle wanted the atmosphere normal  again, and chose to try to
break the dark mood.

“Michael, I'm  not going to  ask what  that was all  about because I  know you
won't tell me  unless you want to. If  you don't mind, however, I  would like to
know how your hand is  and if you need to have a doctor  look at it,” she said
solemnly.

He reached across the  table and took her hand in his  bruised one. “I'm fine.
The doctor can't do anything except recommend an ice pack.”

“I bet that guy you belted will need  a doctor. His bloody nose and busted lip
looked bad.”

He looked a  little embarrassed. “Rochelle, I  swear to you I  don't go around
punching people in the face.”

“For someone who doesn't go around punching people in the face, you sure did a
number  on that  guy.  I'd  hate to  have  his  nose when  he  wakes  up in  the
morning.”

“I'd hate for you to have his nose, too,” Michael chuckled.

“Now  watch your  manners and  eat your  breakfast,” he  said, seeing  Sally
heading toward them with plates of steaming ham and eggs.

The breakfast was delicious despite all the commotion preceding it. They did not
linger over  breakfast, however,  because Michael  planned to  open the  bank at
eight for the employees.



SEVERAL BANK EMPLOYEES STOOD waiting at the  door to get in, when Michael pulled
into his parking space.  Michael seemed not to notice when  the people turned to
gaze at them. Rochelle  did, though. She could feel busy  eyes studying her, and
it made her uncomfortable, knowing they  were speculating on whom she was, where
she was from, and what her affiliation to Michael was. She wished she could just
stay in  the car,  had even  suggested it, but  Michael insisted  otherwise. She
pasted a feigned  smile upon her face, and with  shoulders squared, she followed
alongside Michael, shy beneath the blanket of gazes.

At least  a half  dozen people waited  and most called  good morning  in chorus.
Michael  returned the  greeting and  unlocked the  bank door.  He took  Rochelle
inside with  him while  he shut off  the alarm.  Then he went  back and  let the
employees in. Finally, he took her to his office.

“There are some magazines on the table over there. I may be a little while, so
just relax. The restroom is across the  hall if you need it.” He automatically
reverted from his personal charisma to his business persona as he considered his
responsibilities.

Rochelle  nodded, and  sat down,  watching his  tall, lithe  figure in  his fine
tailor-made suit,  as he  left his office.  He closed the  door behind  him, and
Rochelle  suddenly experienced  the déjà  vu  of being  ensconced in  Tobias's
mansion with  no place to go  and nothing to  do, while she drowned  in boredom.
Just as she  had done then, for lack  of anything better to do,  she allowed her
mind to wander.

She was a young  girl again, in a state of shock after  crashing into a car, and
then encountering a man  with snake eyes that later slithered  all over her when
she and he whiled away the afternoon in  a disco club. In the following days, he
swept her off  her feet, became her  prince in shining armor, and  offered her a
world of bright lights  and big spending that turned her  young girlish head far
afield. In those early days, Tobias seemed to adore her, finding her enchanting,
even making  her feel  she truly was  in a fairyland  life where  everything was
fresh, new,  and exciting.  Then they both  started changing.  Tobias's drinking
habit  worsened until  his temperament  was  like a  short fused  time bomb.  He
snapped at Rochelle without reason, but  worst of all, demanded sexual acts that
repulsed and gagged her.

Eventually she found the busy nightlife,  the parties and social life taxing. It
was a  purposeless and pretentious  way of  life for a  group of people  who had
nothing  better to  do.  When the  bubble  finally broke,  the  essence of  what
Rochelle once found  pleasure in was like  a sun going behind a  dark cloud. The
thrill vanished, and  her prince became her tormentor, a  monster who abused and
regulated every minute of her life.

She looked about Michael's office, noticing  the thick carpet on the floors, the
high ceilings  with dark wood paneling  on the walls, the  framed watercolors of
cowboys, horses, and ranch hands.

Dominating the  wall behind his desk  was a framed  print of a tall  building of
glass  and steel  in an  interesting architectural  design, uniquely  modern and
beautiful. In the corner, behind his desk, flourished a tall, well-tended plant,
such as  were on the  lawns of Tobias's estate.  The thought brought  on another
rush of memories.

The manicured grounds where she had  found peace from the pain, humiliation, and
fear Tobias frequently inflicted, had become her escape. She used to spend hours
roaming about the lawns and gardens. Other  times she sunned by the crystal blue
pool, often swimming  as many laps as  she could as part of  an exercise program
for her  otherwise idle  life. Late  night partying, dining  on foods  rich with
butter, sauces,  calories and fat  grams, and  sleeping to nearly  noon, weren't
exactly pastimes  conducive to a healthy  body; therefore, she tried  to make up
for it by exercising—the only pastime she had that wasn't monitored by Tobias.
At least, she had not thought so, until she learned the security cameras watched
her  wherever  she  was  on  the  estate,  except  in  their  bedroom.  Tobias's
possessiveness was all-inclusive, and monitoring every move she made was part of
his sick obsessive nature.

Would he ever  give up the search for  her? There was a time when  he might have
wanted her  back because he  truly seemed to adore  her. That seemed  a lifetime
ago. Now, she was sure he felt only contempt and would be satisfied with nothing
less than putting her in her grave.

A knock on the door startled Rochelle. She  turned in her chair in time to see a
woman open Michael's office door and peek inside.

“Miss Rathbone, can I bring you some coffee?” she asked politely.

“Oh, no thank you. I'm fine,” Rochelle replied.

“Mr. Matheson said he wouldn't be much longer.”

“Thank you.”

The door closed  quietly, and Rochelle returned to her  thoughts, now turning to
last night.  A warm peachy  feeling spread over her,  her body thrilling  to the
remembered touch  of Michael's  hands and  lips. He drew  passions from  her she
thought were lost,  and in a sense,  he gave her back her  womanhood that Tobias
nearly destroyed.

She  was so  involved  in her  reflections  that Michael  came  into his  office
unnoticed by her. When  he touched her on the shoulder, she  could feel the rush
of blood to her  face after he caught her in  self-absorbed thoughts about their
lovemaking.

“Were you taking a nap?” he asked, running his hand beneath her long hair to
slide along the base of her neck.

“Resting,” she replied, smiling up at him.

Taking her  hands, he  pulled her  from the chair.  He put  his arms  about her,
pulled her close to him, just holding her like that for several seconds.

“Are you ready to go?” he asked, releasing her.

She nodded her head.

They  left  the  bank  with  many pairs  of  inquisitive  eyes  following  their
movements. One could nearly imagine employees waiting until Michael and Rochelle
were out the door  so they could discuss the latest gossip  about their boss and
the wealthy redhead.





Chapter Twenty-Two


John and Ruth  Shipley greeted Michael cordially when he  and Rochelle went into
the  real estate  office. Both  were middle-aged,  friendly, and  eager to  show
houses to Rochelle. John Shipley expressed  surprise to see Michael farther away
from his  bank than  at the  restaurant across the  street, and  the insinuation
brought a blush to Rochelle's cheeks.

“It's only  a temporary reprieve. Even  now, duty calls,” Michael  told him,
and turned Rochelle over to the Shipleys.

Ruth took Rochelle in  hand, and with a book of listings,  began showing them to
her before Michael was out the door.

“Come by the bank  when you're finished. Your car should  be there by then,”
Michael told her, holding her gaze a moment longer before leaving.

Rochelle  smiled   and  nodded.  Focusing   her  attention,  she   gave  serious
concentration to the  listings. Eventually, she found three that  might meet the
requirements of  what she wanted.  Ruth hustled her into  her car, and  drove to
each of  the houses.  The first  one was too  far away  from town,  the deciding
factor against  it. The second one  was a two  bedroom, and the living  area was
much too small. The  third one seemed nice enough, but  the neighborhood did not
appeal to Rochelle. She sighed with regret.

“There's a  couple more  I can  show you. Exactly  what kind  of home  are you
interested in, large, small, comfortable?”

At that same moment, they passed a beautiful home as elegant as any Rochelle had
ever seen. The gorgeously manicured lawn spread over a spacious area with shrubs
closely clipped and shaped.





“Does anyone live in that house?” Rochelle blurted out before Ruth passed it
by.

Ruth pulled  over to the curb,  backed up until she  was in front of  the house.
“No one lives  there presently, but I  don't believe it's for  sale. There's a
possibility you might rent it.”

“I'd like to see it if I may. Is it furnished?”

“It's furnished. I'll  call John and see if  he can get the key.”  She had a
two-way radio in the car and called him on it.

Rochelle was  out of the  car in a  blink and heading  toward the house.  It was
large, elegant,  and stately. It was  a two-story structure with  tall shuttered
windows, a  long gallery spreading across  the front with the  roof supported by
pillars.  It resembled  homes of  the old  south, but  its spaciousness  was the
attractive characteristic that impressed Rochelle.

Ruth joined her after her husband agreed to bring the key.

“John won't be  long, so we can  explore the grounds while we  wait. The house
has been vacant for  some time now, but the owner keeps it  up. I believe he was
in the process of remodeling the kitchen.”

“Why doesn't  the owner  live here?”  Rochelle asked,  looking at  the large
brick patio in the rear of the house with lots of shrubbery and plants to create
a lovely landscape.

“The owner built his own home. This one belonged to his parents.”

“And where are the parents?”

“They both are  dead.” Ruth was hesitant  to tell her the  house belonged to
Michael,  and that  his parents  had lived  there. There  had been  so much  bad
publicity surrounding  the house that  she thought it best  to say as  little as
possible.

“I believe I hear John now,” she remarked, turning to go toward the front of
the house. “You just keep looking and I'll be right back.”





“Surely, she doesn't want this house,” John Shipley said to his wife.

“It's the only one she's shown any interest in. Did you speak to Michael about
it?”

“He  said he  would rather  rent  it, but  if  she's intent  on buying,  he'll
sell.”

“Did he say how much?”

“He wants Two Hundred and Twenty-Five Thousand.”

“It's well worth  that and more with  all the land, but there  aren't too many
people around here who can afford that or would even buy it if they could afford
it because of its history.”

“Can she afford it?” John asked, nodding his head toward Rochelle.

“Gossip has it that she's very wealthy. Anyway, I doubt Michael would offer to
sell if he didn't think she was  financially capable of buying, and I imagine if
anyone should know, he would.”

“This house  was in his  family for  many years, but  I suppose it's  become a
burden  with taxes,  insurance  and upkeep.  Michael doesn't  need  it, and  his
brother doesn't want it.”

“There's  the matter  of the  violent  deaths that  occurred here.  I have  an
obligation  to tell  her,  but you  know  how opposed  Michael  is about  people
discussing anything involving his father and stepmother's deaths.”

“I  told Michael  she would  have  to be  told, and  he  said be  as brief  as
possible. He'd rather she didn't know all the details.”

“You know she's going to ask questions?”

“Then you will simply  have to refer her to Michael,”  John said, turning to
leave.

Rochelle  came from  around the  house  and met  Ruth  at the  front door.  Ruth
unlocked it and they both stepped inside.





The interior  was spacious,  richly designed, elegant  and well  maintained. The
house was completely furnished, and when Rochelle lifted some of the dust covers
from the furniture,  she saw upholstered sofas and chairs  done in rich fabrics,
and beautifully carved rosewood tables that  were old and probably priceless. As
they toured the dining  room, a library, a study, a den with  a full bathroom, a
large breakfast  room that joined the  kitchen, Rochelle had nearly  made up her
mind to buy the place.

As Ruth  had said, the kitchen  was undergoing remodeling. Old  cabinets, stored
against one wall  were due for replacement  with new ones that  were more modern
and made  of dark  pine. The  new floor  made of  eggshell ceramic  tiles looked
recently finished. The  rest of the kitchen shone with  decorative ceramic tiles
between the  lower and upper  cabinets. The  soffit above the  cabinets, papered
with a  lovely leaf  pattern design,  added color  beneath the  generous ceiling
lights.

Rochelle liked  the house, liked  the furnishings,  liked the location  close to
town and the interstate, and visualized  herself living there. She and Ruth went
upstairs.

“There are five bedrooms upstairs and two have their own full, elaborate baths
with tubs and  showers,” Ruth explained as they made  their tour. “The other
three bedrooms share a bath, but it's just as luxurious as the first two.”

Rochelle began looking in each room, impressed by each and the delightful décor
of expensive furnishings. When  she turned the knob on the last  door at the end
of the hallway, it would not budge.

She turned to Ruth. “Do you have the key to this room?”

“Yes, but there's  something I must tell  you before I show it  to you,” she
stated hesitantly sliding the key in the lock and turning it.

“This room has been closed up for a  good reason. It is the master bedroom and
once belonged to the owner's parents. They were killed in this room.”

Rochelle gasped. “Killed? How were they killed? Why? What happened?”

“The  people  were shot  while  they  slept.  Their  murderer has  never  been
caught.”

“Didn't  the police  have any  idea who  it might  be?” Rochelle  asked with
shock.

“They made an arrest, and there was a trial, but because there was no evidence
against the man,  the defense cast so  much doubt on the  prosecution's case the
jury found him not guilty. Anyway, no one believes the person charged was guilty
anyway. I believe most people call it a trumped up charge.”

“Who does this house belong to, Ruth?”

Ruth hung her head and watched the toe  of her shoe poke at an imaginary object.
“James Matheson owned this house.”

“James Matheson, the  banker? James Matheson, Michael's father?”  A flash of
remembrance crossed her brow. She had been in the house the time she had visited
with her parents.  Being a young girl,  she had found nothing  there to interest
her; thus, the reason she had forgotten about it.

“Yes, Michael's  father owned this  house. I didn't think  it was my  place to
tell you since you know Michael. I'm sorry I had to do so.”

“Who was charged with the murders?”  Rochelle asked, holding the doorknob of
the door to the room.

“Michael  was,  but  no  one  in  this  town  believes  he  did  it.  He  was,
unfortunately, in the wrong place at the right time.”

“Who is  Wayne?” Rochelle asked,  recalling what  Wayne had said  to Michael
that morning.

“Wayne was a gardener and handyman here.”





“Why do he and Michael dislike each other so much?”

“Miss Rathbone, my husband and I have great respect for Michael, as we did for
his father.  I really  do not  feel it  is up to  me to  tell you  these things.
Perhaps Michael can…”

“Is it a secret to the people in this town?” Rochelle asked softly.

“No, everyone knows. It's no secret.”

“Then will you please  tell me? I am still interested in  buying this house. I
don't see any reason why my realtor can't disclose the history of the house, and
if a bit of information on the  people who lived here is accidentally mentioned,
then I don't see anything wrong with that either.”

She turned the  doorknob and walked into  the room, gazing at  a king-sized bed,
his and her chests, and a dresser and  mirror. It also had a sitting area with a
small French  sofa and two matching  chairs surrounding a coffee  table. All the
furniture was in  a warm white, complemented  by a thick, dark  blue carpet. The
room apparently had received a thorough cleaning, and nothing appeared disturbed
by the violence that had occurred there.

“I suppose you're right, but I hope you will consider my confidences a private
matter. Michael might not appreciate me telling you.”

“Tell me about Wayne and Michael. Why do they dislike each other?”

“The senior Mr. Matheson remarried after Michael's mother died with cancer. He
married a woman much  younger than him and word had it  that she wasn't… well,
she wasn't a highly moral person.

Gossip had  it that she was  sleeping with Wayne  when Mr. Matheson went  off to
work. The  police investigated Wayne, could  not prove anything against  him, so
they went after Michael.

“You see, Michael had come here  from San Francisco for his father's birthday,
and when Mr. and Mrs. Matheson were shot and killed Michael was at the other end
of the hall, asleep in his old bedroom.”

“But did something happen between Michael and Wayne?”

“Michael caught  Wayne and Tina  downstairs in  his father's study  before the
killings took  place. Tina was  James Matheson's wife, Michael's  stepmother. He
didn't want to hurt his father by telling  him, yet, he felt compelled to do so.
His  father refused  to listen.  People said  Tina had  Mr. Matheson  so twisted
around her little finger that he didn't want to know her faults or infidelities.

“Anyway, Michael told  Wayne to get off the property.  Wayne refused to leave,
saying James  Matheson hired him, and  he would not leave  unless James Matheson
fired him. He and Michael got into  a terrible argument. They even threw punches
at each other, but Tina called the police, who came and broke it up.

“Mr. Matheson did fire  Wayne, and it came out at the  trial that Wayne forced
himself past Mr. Matheson  into the house where he found  Tina and demanded that
she leave with him. The housekeeper later  testified in court that she had never
seen any man as angry as Wayne when Tina laughed in his face and told him he had
lost his mind. Mr.  Matheson tried to get him out of  the house, finally calling
the police when Wayne  kept after Tina to leave with him.  The police made Wayne
leave after he collected his things from the apartment above the garage.

“It was about three  days later that both Mr. Matheson and  Tina were shot and
killed right  here in this  room,” she said, nodding  toward the bed  that was
covered with a beautiful dark blue comforter and a matching bed skirt.

“Wayne  had more  motive than  anyone else.  Why wasn't  he investigated  more
thoroughly?”

“Wayne told the police he'd caught  Michael and Tina having sex together, said
they'd been having an affair off and  on since Tina married Michael's father, so
it became Michael's word against Wayne's. Since Tina had made a few trips to San
Francisco where Michael  lived at the time, the  circumstantial evidence started
adding up against him.”

“Were they having an affair?”

“I  would bet  my life  that they  weren't. Michael's  mother instilled  sound
morals in  her children. Michael's  conscience wouldn't allow  him to do  such a
thing with his father's wife.

“Anyway, as it finally  turned out, the police decided Michael  not only had a
motive, he also had the opportunity. The motive was that when he told his father
about  Tina and  Wayne  having sex,  his  father was  furious  with Michael  and
threatened to change  his will and disinherit him. The  housekeeper testified to
that story, and it  seemed that Michael had no defense  against the charges made
by the police.

“The night it happened, the police  received an anonymous tip that someone had
murdered the  senior Matheson and  his wife, and  when the police  arrived, they
found Michael still asleep in his bed.

He didn't know anything about what had  happened until the police woke him. Even
a fool  would not  have killed  his parents, then  gone back  to bed  and fallen
asleep.

“Miss Rathbone, it was terrible for poor Michael. He has been through hell and
back again. But everybody  in this town loves him and knows  he could never have
done what he was accused of doing.”

“The gun shots must have been  extremely loud. How could Michael sleep through
that?”

“Well, like I said, Michael came home for his father's birthday.

Mind you, they never celebrated just one  day as most folks do—the first day's
celebration was  for family, the  second for  employees and associates,  and the
third  for close  friends. There  was  too much  drinking that  third night  and
Michael admitted later that he had been upset with his father and drank far more
than was  his nature. One  of the bank employees,  Zimmerman, I believe,  had to
help him  upstairs to his  room, which is  at the far end  of the hall  from the
master suite.

He passed out, and that's why he didn't hear the sound of the gunshots.”

“Is the  case still open?  Are the police  still searching for  the killer?”
Rochelle asked, finding  it hard to believe that the  police might even consider
Michael as a suspect.

“Since Michael was tried and found not  guilty, the police have put no further
effort into finding who it might  be. I understand Michael keeps encouraging the
police chief  and the sheriff's department  to pursue the investigation,  but if
they are, I haven't heard about it. They never did find the gun used to kill the
Mathesons,  and without  a weapon,  I hear  it is  hard to  make a  charge stick
without hard evidence. They only  had circumstantial evidence against Michael at
the trial. That's why the jury found him not guilty.”

“Did the police search for the gun?”

“They searched every possible place here on  the premises where a gun might be
hidden. The housekeeper, who  had to clean up the mess made  by the police, said
they turned  everything upside  down, and  inside out, both  in and  outside the
house. Not a single place was left undisturbed, she reported.”

“Then it  stands to reason  whoever killed them must  have taken the  gun with
them. How could they  possibly suspect Michael when he was  still in bed asleep?
Further, who was  the anonymous caller who reported the  killings? Did they ever
question that?”

“They did, but nothing ever came of it.”

“Poor Michael must have been devastated.”





“He was indeed,  and for a number  of reasons. His brother didn't  know who or
what  to believe  so he  turned  against Michael.  Then when  the police  jailed
Michael  he wasn't  allowed  bail because  he  had a  thriving  business in  San
Francisco and they were afraid he would jump bail. His business failed miserably
during the time of his incarceration without him to run it, and finally, he gave
up the business,  sold out everything. I  don't know if it was  due to financial
loss, or if he simply chose to  run his father's bank. Larry, Michael's brother,
wanted no part of it.”

“What kind of business was Michael in?”

“He was an architect, and a very good one, I understand.

Although San  Francisco was his  base, rumors were  that he was  getting clients
from all around the country, and he was making lots of money for what he did. He
was  into  major  developments  such as  high-rises,  billion-dollar  commercial
projects and more, and  he had a large team who worked with  him. At the time of
his  arrest, he  had been  actively  preparing to  set up  his own  construction
company so he not only drew the  plans, but implemented them as well. Michael is
a very intelligent man, but everyone feels  he is not happy with what he's doing
now. He  made a  lot of  money in  San Francisco,  and many  people felt  he was
destined to  go far,  until the deaths  of his  father and Tina  and he  was put
through the whole horrible ordeal of being charged for their murder.”

“I take it,  you strongly believe in his innocence,”  Rochelle said, pulling
the door of the bedroom closed behind her.

“The  entire town  believes in  Michael's  innocence. He  is one  of the  most
respected and  well-liked persons around.  When he  was younger, before  he went
away to college, he was always doing  something to help people. He would mow the
yard for some  old lady, baby-sit someone's animal while  they went on vacation,
fix a leaky faucet for someone he  knew couldn't afford a plumber, and dozens of
other things. Never was there a shortage  of people who needed him to help them,
and Michael did it  in the best of spirits. He likes helping  people, and it has
earned him a great deal of respect and many friends. Since he's been running the
bank, he's made some  fairly risky loans to friends of his  that no other banker
would have  touched, but  they paid  off and  Michael came  out ahead,  not only
financially, but also by gaining some strong friendships.

“Everybody still  believes it  was Wayne  who did the  killings, but  it seems
we'll never know the truth.”

“Where does Michael live?”

“He  built his  own  house, a  beautiful  ranch style  structure  just on  the
outskirts of  town. It's  in a wonderful  location, and some  say it's  the only
thing Michael cherishes since the death of his father.”

Ruth noticed Rochelle  was staring at her  with a strange look on  her face. She
felt panic growing inside her, fearing she might have said something to ruin the
friendship that seemed to have sprouted between Michael and Rochelle. “If I've
said something…” she began.

Rochelle's expression, however, proved to be a thoughtful one.

“Ruth, I'd like to buy this house. Please draw up the necessary papers. Do you
know who's doing the work on the kitchen?”

“Michael is doing the remodeling.”

“Michael?”

“He likes working  with his hands. I think  he enjoys it as a  hobby when he's
not working at the bank.”

Rochelle thought of Michael's hands that bore none of the softness of a banker's
hands. She  remembered the calluses on  his fingers, and now  felt, after Ruth's
explanation, that she  truly knew Michael Matheson and  understood the emotional
scars he was reluctant to expose.





Ruth still worried that she might  have said too much. “Miss Rathbone, Michael
is one of the finest men I've ever  known. No one is more respected in this town
than he is.  If I have said anything  that concerns you, please say  so. I would
not have you leave here thinking anything bad about him.”

Rochelle  regarded  her with  understanding.  “Everything  you've said  merely
confirms what I knew all ready. Michael really is a very special man.”





Chapter Twenty-Three


Rochelle asked Ruth to  drop her off at the bank where a  bright, shiny new blue
sedan sat in the  parking lot. She smiled, happy to  have her own transportation
even though after five years of not having driven a car, she would have to learn
all over again. The car would allow her  greater sense of freedom to come and go
as she  chose. Windy Point  was quickly becoming  home as she  established roots
with her car, a home, and… she was thinking of Michael.

Dare she hope for a normal life, considering Tobias was always in the background
of her thoughts and fears?

When Rochelle went into the bank, she looked around for Michael. Not seeing him,
she inquired at the nearest teller window.

“I need to see Mr. Matheson, please.”

“Yes, Miss Rathbone. Just a second, please.” The teller picked up the phone,
pushed a button,  and spoke briefly into the phone  to announce Rochelle. “Mr.
Matheson said for you to come to his office.”

“Hi,” she  said when he  opened the door for  her. “Your tellers  are very
courteous. They're even calling me Miss Rathbone now.”





He trained an amused  grin on her. “Don't laud them too much.  I hear they are
making bets about us.  We have become reason for a great  deal of speculation. I
hope you don't mind.”

“It sounds innocent enough. I think it is rather amusing.

Everyone treats  me very  special after  seeing you  accompany me  these several
times. Why would I mind that?” She gave him a warm intimate smile.

Michael closed  the door behind  her, and recklessly  drew her against  his hard
chest, the professionalism temporarily put aside.

“You feel so good,” he said, brushing his lips against her cheek.

Then as she turned  her gaze up to meet his blue eyes,  he covered her lips with
his in an exploration of the familiar territory he had so enjoyed last night.

When he let her go, Rochelle's knees were weak. Taking a big breath, she lowered
herself in the chair next to his desk.

“Did you find a house?” he asked with mild interest.

Before she could answer, his phone rang, and he lifted it to his ear.

“Yes,” he said, his attention seeming to perk up at hearing the voice of the
person  calling. He  listened  for at  least  two full  minutes  before he  said
anything else, and when  he did, all he said was, “I  see.” Then he listened
some  more, his  proud face  oddly composed  until it  transformed with  a deep,
inexplicable regret.  “I see,”  he said again.  Then, “Thanks  for telling
me.” He hung up the phone.

Rochelle saw the tiredness in his face, the regret in his eyes, and suddenly she
wanted to give comfort. She rose from  her chair and went to him. “Michael, is
something wrong?” She laid her hand upon his arm.

He turned away from her, oddly distant  considering he just held and kissed her.
“I understand you  learned a great deal  about me today,” he  stated with an
injured air.





The remark sounded accusing.

Rochelle flinched at his tone. When he turned  to face her again, she saw he was
angry and disturbed. “I suppose I did,” she maintained calmly.

“And?” It came out in a sharp retort, his eyes darkening with challenge.

“And what? What are you asking me?”

“I suppose you've formed a few opinions,” he accused brusquely.

He turned  his back to her  again, his attention  seeming to take in  the framed
enlargement of  the glass  and steel  building on  his wall  as if  studying it.
Rochelle went  up behind him,  reaching around to  touch his arm.  “Michael, I
don't know any more than everyone else in this town, and if you think it changes
my opinion of you, then you're wrong.”

He did an about face, nearly  unbalancing her. His brows knitted close together.
“I was  charged with murder, Rochelle.  Doesn't that bother you?”  His voice
took on an edge of contempt, and Rochelle  could not decide if it was toward her
or the memories of  his father and stepmother's deaths, which  brought him up on
murder charges.

Rochelle stared at him, knowing she  had done nothing to provoke such animosity.
Why should he  be so angry with  her, displaying an attitude as  if she betrayed
him in some way?

Then recalling how  evasive he had been  to all her questions in  the three days
she had known him, she knew why he was angry.

Ruth had  furnished her  with information that  gave her a  close look  into his
life, and to him  it bordered on an invasion of his privacy.  He could have been
angry with  Ruth for betraying  his confidence, but  he wasn't. Instead,  he was
angry with Rochelle for knowing more than he wanted her to know.

“No, Michael,  your having been charged  with murder doesn't bother  me, but I
can see it bothers you.”

“Did she tell you I slept with my stepmother?”

Rochelle felt  the blood  rush to  her head.  Was it  an admission  or question?
“No, she didn't tell me that. She said Wayne accused you.

Did you sleep with her, Michael? Is that why you're so upset by my knowing?”

His lips curled, and his fine, proud features became corrupted by whatever venom
boiled inside him. “Is that what you think?” he demanded, and his voice bore
no resemblance  to the  tender man  whose kiss  she enjoyed  just a  few moments
earlier.

She should  have known what was  happening inside him, should  have suspected it
right away since  she had suffered from the same  pain, anguish, and humiliation
so many times herself.  It was frustration turned to anger,  and anger turned to
hostility over  circumstances that caused him  to lose control of  his life. She
knew a person could  never be free so long as they lived  under any suspicion or
threat—she was a good example of that. Even if a court of law did find Michael
not guilty, until the police caught the  real murderer, he would feel the weight
of public opinion  from now on—just as he was  assuming that Rochelle believed
the worst about him.

Rochelle should have understood,  but at that moment, all she  saw was his anger
directed toward her and it hurt her feelings.

“I don't think anything about you and your stepmother, Michael.

Would it matter if I said I could never believe those things about you?”

She became quiet  a second or two,  and when he failed to  reply, she continued.
“This is obviously a  bad time. If you'll just give me my  car key, I'll leave
you alone with your distorted view of what I think!”

He snatched the key from his pocket and threw it upon his desk, his eyes looking
as dangerous as Tobias had looked many times.





Rochelle's face must have reflected her disappointment as she grabbed up the key
and sped from his  office, forcing herself to keep a  lady-like pace through the
bank lobby. She looked neither left nor  right, but headed straight for the door
that led to the parking lot to her new car.

Her hands were shaking,  her mental state still precarious at  best with all the
drudgery of  the past and  fear of  Tobias finding her.  A sudden rain  of angry
tears  blinded her  as she  started to  put  the key  in the  ignition. With  an
aggressive thrust,  she shoved  the key in  the hole and  turned it.  The engine
started up immediately, purring just as new engines were supposed to do. She put
the gear  in reverse and  flew backwards—her  actions reminiscent of  the time
when she had run into Tobias's car—unmindful that her foot was pressing on the
gas pedal  when she changed gears.  She hit the  brake, coming to a  sudden stop
that threw her forward then backward. As  the car settled, she froze in her seat
in  a stiff  upright  pose, her  face suddenly  contorting  into an  exasperated
expression with moisture clouding her eyes.

“Is there a  problem, Miss,” a customer  coming out of the  bank asked after
tapping on the car window.

Shamed by her display, Rochelle quickly brushed  at her eyes and shook her head,
feeling suddenly ridiculous. “No, no problem.

This is a new car and I'm just trying to get used to it. Thank you,”

she said, keeping her head turned aside to hide her tear-stained eyes.

With a shrug, the man gave her a sympathetic look and walked away.

In the meantime, her unskilled driving ability suddenly struck her as funny, and
she burst out  laughing. She imagined how  she must appear to that  kind old man
while she tried  to back her car out,  bawling like a kid because  she could not
get the knack of it.





Finally, concentrating intently, she touched her  foot to the pedal very gently,
her other foot riding  on the brake, and backed up at a  snail's pace. After she
safely backed  up enough,  she put the  gear in forward,  wheeled it  around and
continued to move at a snail's pace until she was out on the street. By the time
she pulled in  the parking space at  the motel, she was  breathing more normally
again, and believing she might still know how to drive after all.

Her elation was terribly lacking, however, where her and Michael's confrontation
was concerned.





Chapter Twenty-Four



Michael neither called  nor tried to see Rochelle. Ruth  Shipley didn't call her
either, and  it appeared the two  of them were  putting her on hold.  Three days
later, she called Ruth. “I was just  calling about the house,” she told Ruth
after giving her name.

Ruth stretched the truth, and Rochelle recognized it right away.

“Oh,  Miss  Rathbone,  I've been  meaning  to  call  you.  I've just  been  so
busy…” She left the statement hanging.

“Has it been decided if I am to rent or buy?” Rochelle asked directly.

A tone of  regret sounded in Ruth's voice. “I'm  sorry, Miss Rathbone, Michael
hasn't given me his decision yet. I really can't tell you anything. If you would
like to look at other houses, I'll be glad to show you.”

“No thanks. I'll just wait for his answer.”

She  felt  wounded  and  betrayed.  She resented  Michael's  standoff,  and  was
determined not to put  herself in his presence until he had  the decency to call
her. She knew he had breakfast at the restaurant every morning between seven and
eight. To avoid running into him, she  purposely waited until ten to have a late
breakfast, it enabling her  to skip lunch. Then in the  evening, she bought fast
food and carried it back to the  motel. Hibernating in the closed motel room the
rest of the time, she either read or watched television to pass the time.

On  the fifth  day, she  was having  a second  cup of  coffee at  the restaurant
following her late breakfast when Michael slid  in the seat across from her. She
grabbed her purse to leave, but he  reached across the table and restrained her,
holding her arm. “We have to talk.”

“I don't think there's anything left for us to discuss,” she snapped. He had
left her for  five days to ponder  and stew over his attitude  toward her, which
she took no responsibility for causing.

“I'm sorry,” he said,  still holding her arm. “I had no  right to act that
way with you.”

“And it  took you all these  several days to  come to that conclusion?  I have
recently run away from one temperamental man.

I don't need another, Michael.”

“You have every right to be angry. I  just could not deal with having you know
those things about me. I wasn't ready to face that with you.”

“I didn't mention any  of it, Michael, if you'll recall,  until you brought it
up yourself. You didn't have to face it with me until you were ready.”

“I know that. Rochelle,  I have spent the past couple of  years trying to live
down all the gossip and tales that have circulated about the deaths of my father
and Tina. I was accused, tried,  and fortunately found not guilty. Nevertheless,
do you think that exonerates me? It doesn't, not by a long shot. There are still
people who will always think I'm guilty until the perpetrator is found, and from
the little the police are doing, that may never happen.”

She was  angry and  hurt, but  humbled at  his disclosure.  She agreed  with his
analysis and knew  a dark cloud would hang  over his head from now  on until the
case was resolved. At  least he was finally sharing a little  of who he actually
was. She  hated to  admit it,  but his sudden  absence in  her life  after three
wonderful days with him was painfully miserable.

His hand moved to  her wrist, and she shook it off. Still  hurt, she retorted in
an injured air, “I was never prepared  to believe the worst about you, but you
were prepared to read the worst into my  thoughts. You were angry with me, and I
did not deserve that. I did nothing wrong.”

“I know that. I simply reacted to  something that is still very personal. I am
sorry. I don't know what else to say.”

Rochelle let go of her purse, and settled back in her chair.

Letting her  eyes trail  to her  cup of coffee,  she resisted  the urge  to give
Michael a  strong taste of  her anger, or more  aptly, her frustration  over his
five-day rejection. Instead, she recalled her misery over the past few days, now
wanting  things  to be  as  they  were before  he  became  upset with  her—and
frantically needing a decision about the  house. That motel room was driving her
stir-crazy.

“What have  you been doing?”  he asked, trying to  break the icy  chill that
clung to the air between them.

“What do you suppose?” she countered tritely.

“How does the car drive?” He tried again.

“It drives like it's in charge instead of me,” she snorted, and then watched
a smile grow on Michael's face. “It isn't funny,” she reprimanded crossly.





He reached up  and drew his hand across  his mouth, and put on a  steely face of
seriousness. “I'm  not laughing,”  he stated,  staring at  her with  a blank
expression.

Rochelle's mouth  twitched and she  bit back a  reluctant grin, until  she could
contain it no longer.  Then she giggled. “If you expect me  to forgive you for
treating me so badly, I don't,” she said petulantly.

Michael covered her hand with his. “You don't have to. I was wrong.”

Rochelle stared at the strength and character  in his face, her gaze moving down
to where he  touched her hand. Thoughtfully she began  speaking. “Michael, I'm
the authority on pain  and anguish. I know how it feels, and  I know what it can
do to someone. Why do you think I  avoided telling you all about me? I could not
face telling you  and having you know  the kind of shame and  degradation I have
faced and lived with. It hurts, and I  know you were hurting, but do not make me
the enemy, because I'm not.”

“Chelle, I'm sorry, honey.  I just wasn't prepared to have  you know about the
sick tale of what happened to me. You  think things are behind you, that you can
go on  with your life, maybe  find some happiness,  but it is a  faulty concept.
Nothing is ever behind you.”

“Then we're in the  same situation, Michael. Do you think  my life just began?
At least  you have a second  chance. I am not  sure I do. If  Tobias ever learns
where I am…” She couldn't finish her thought.

“I feel like a heel, Chelle. It was  just a bad moment, and I was more worried
and hurt over  what you might think than  the fact that you knew. I  am glad you
know now. It  is out in the  open. Mabel told me  I should open up  my closet of
skeletons and let them out.

Perhaps the time will come when you'll feel comfortable enough with me to do the
same.”





“There are some things  I can't share with you, Michael. It  isn't that I want
to keep secrets, it's  just that there are hurts in a  person's life too painful
to share.”

Then quickly changing the  subject, she said, “I called Ruth  a couple of days
ago. She said you haven't decided about  the house. I have to do something soon.
Living in that motel room is beginning to turn me into a cranky old lady.”

He  expelled a  tiny chuckle.  “Feeling  your age,  huh?  You must  be all  of
twenty-three.”

“I'm twenty-four  to be  exact. It  was my birthday  the day  you drove  me to
Bozeman.”

His mouth dropped  open a moment in  surprise. “Now, I do feel  like the worst
kind of heel. Chelle, why didn't you tell me?”

“Birthdays stopped  being important to  me about  four years ago,”  she said
contemplatively, recalling her twenty-first birthday,  which was the worst night
of her  life. Tobias had  been brutal with  her, and as  drunken as he  was, and
angry, she was certain he was going to kill her that night.

She had drunk too much champagne at  the disco where he took her, accompanied by
two other couples and  a young single man she had never  previously met. For the
first  time in  months, she  felt  carefree and  happy because  Tobias had  made
special plans just for her because of her birthday, seeming more his old self.

When Tobias excused himself to go  to the men's restroom, her reasoning ability,
sedated by alcohol, did  not permit analytical thought of what  she was doing or
the possible  consequences, thereof. When  the man,  called Steve, asked  her to
dance, she agreed readily. Unwittingly, she smiled, came to her feet and waltzed
out on the  dance floor with him,  not the least thought that  Tobias would find
her behavior unbecoming.

When Tobias came from the restroom,  he observed Rochelle and Steve quietly with
a  poker face.  He watched  while  the song  ended  and they  stood waiting  for
another, all the while staring into each  other's face and laughing at some joke
or other. Tobias's control was masterful.

Rochelle was having such  a good time dancing with Steve,  she saw no indication
of Tobias's ill regard when Steve brought her back to their table and seated her
next to Tobias. He smiled at them as though nothing in the world bothered him.

Internally though, he was  a bomb ready to explode—and he did  as soon as they
arrived home  at two-thirty in  the morning. He slapped  and beat her  into near
unconsciousness, then raped her with as much brutality as he could muster.

Like all the other times when Tobias had abused her, she needed a doctor, but he
refused to let her see one. She was bedridden for nearly four weeks, certain she
had sustained a fractured rib where he punched her with his fist.

“Tell me why you stopped having birthdays,” Michael prompted.

Rochelle shook  her head. “No, it's  not exactly a topic  for conversation.”
She  glanced away,  then  straightened her  shoulders, took  a  deep breath  and
changed the subject. “What about the house?

I need an answer.”

“Is it your intention to buy it or rent?”

“If you will sell it to me I'd like to buy.”

“Even after knowing what happened there, you still want to buy?”

“Isn't that what I just said? If you're still concerned about Ruth telling me,
she indicated that she was obligated to do so.”

“What  else did  she  tell you?”  he  asked darkly,  a  grim look  instantly
shadowing his tanned face.





Noticing  the  sudden  darkening  of  his mood,  Rochelle  proceeded  to  repair
the  breach threatening  between them  again.  “Michael, it  doesn't make  any
difference what she told  me, but I can assure you  there was nothing derogatory
in her  manner. Her attitude  is very  positive toward you.  If you ever  need a
friend, you certainly have one in her.”

He leaned forward, crossing  his arms in front of him on  the table. “How much
did she tell you?” he demanded firmly.

Rochelle sighed.  “You're grilling me, Michael.  I had best just  leave. I can
see you're  not ready  to let the  subject rest.” She  stood up,  grabbing her
purse.

“Sit down!” he said abruptly, drawing attention from other customers.

Rochelle glanced  about her, seeing the  inquisitive looks from all  around. The
waitress came over with the coffee carafe at that moment, setting a cup in front
of  Michael, and  filling Rochelle's  partly empty  cup. Taking  a deep  breath,
Rochelle gave  Michael a sharp  glance, and suddenly  not caring who  heard, she
shot at him,

“Michael, I will not sit here and be party to a scene.”

“Then sit  down and quit  making one,” he  demanded. “Are you  certain you
want to live in a house where something so violent has happened?”

Slowly, she sat  back down. “My mind is  made up. The house is the  only one I
liked out of those Ruth showed me. I would probably change the furniture in that
room.”

“It's already  been changed. All  the furniture and  carpet in there  are new.
There are smaller homes that require less upkeep, you know.”

“Are you trying to talk  me out of it? If you don't want  to sell, just say so
and I won't press you.”





“It isn't  that. I  just wonder  if you  have thought  this through.  You said
yourself  you may  have  to leave  in  a moment's  notice.  Wouldn't you  prefer
renting, or even better, I'll be happy to let you stay there for nothing.”

Rochelle looked in his handsome shadowed  face, his statement not what she hoped
to hear. The  play of emotions across her features  reflected her sudden unrest.
“Michael, I  have been  taken care  of all  my life,  and I  truly want  to do
something on my  own for a change, if  for no other reason than to  prove that I
can.”

“I'll make a  deal with you. Why don't  you live there for six  months, and if
after that time you still want the house, I'll sell it to you.”

“Is that the only way we can do business?”

“I'm afraid so. Let's just say I'm not ready to sell.”

“Then we need to work out a rental agreement.”

“That isn't necessary.”

“Yes, it is.” She  grabbed a napkin from the holder  and began writing. When
she was  finished, she  handed it  to him.  “This amount  should be  worthy of
adequately compensating  you through the  six months  you've given me.  Will you
accept it?”

“Accepted,” he said, wadding the napkin and tossing it down.

“I also need your permission to have a security system installed.”

“Permission granted. What else?”

“I need to know what to do about the kitchen.”

“I'll finish it, maybe not as fast as you'd like, but the kitchen is usable as
it is.”

“I'll need a live in combination cook-housekeeper. Can you refer someone?”

“I'll give it some thought, and get back to you on it. What else?”





“Can you  please stop  being so  abrupt?” His  profile turned  to her  as he
looked  out the  window, and  for  a brief  moment,  Rochelle saw  a flicker  of
vulnerability  written on  his  proud  face. He  was  in  a contemplative  mood,
reflecting neither anger nor disapproval, but there was an expression of a deep,
inexplicable regret. Rochelle knew he was  acutely distressed at having her know
the profound misery  and remorse he had  suffered after the death  of his father
and stepmother.  It would probably  stand between them  for some time,  until he
trusted her enough not to let it bother him any longer.

Turning, he locked  gazes with her. Not  caring in the least  what anyone around
him thought, he reached across the table,  taking her chin between his thumb and
forefinger. “I'm not angry with you.  I am, however, angry about an unsettling
period in my life that I never had any control over and still don't have. I wish
Ruth hadn't told you.”

Very gently, she said, “Michael, I've shared things with you.

Why do you want to shut me out when everyone else knows? It doesn't change how I
feel about you.”

He glanced at her questioningly. “And exactly  how do you feel about me?” he
inquired seriously.

Rochelle had  previously thought him very  casual and lighthearted with  all his
teasing, but beneath that  charm was a warm, vulnerable human  being who cared a
great deal about a lot of things.

She opened her mouth  to answer him, and then stopped  when she realized exactly
what he was asking.  Blurting out that he was all too  quickly becoming the most
important person in her  life was too revealing. She just  wasn't ready to trust
him with her heart.

“What do you want me to feel, Michael?” Her response was one he likely would
have given had she asked him the same question.

He was completely serious. “I'm not sure, Chelle. I'm a realistic sort of guy,
and  I try  to set  realistic  goals.” He  stopped talking,  and glanced  down
thoughtfully. When he looked up, a puzzled expression dulled his blue eyes. “I
know  you are  married and  neither of  us can  offer commitments.  That is  the
realism of our situation.”

Rochelle stared  at him, afraid  to breathe, fearing he  was going to  end their
brief relationship. She had told herself dozens  of times it was best to end it,
to become  independent and self-reliant. Still,  there was that single  night of
glory, when  fire-works exploded in her  brain and left her  surrendering to the
most pleasant feelings yet known. Despite all the obstacles, she did not want to
lose  that  shared  closeness.  She  wanted independence,  but  she  wanted  the
relationship, too. Likely, it was a road map to disaster, but she didn't want it
to end. Even if she and Michael could  never plan a future, or anything except a
day-to-day existence,  they could at  least try to  squeeze what joy  they could
from a precarious relationship.

“What you say  is true. I cannot give  you a commitment. I have  no choices to
speak of, at least  not in a relationship. You do, however. We  can end this now
and go  our separate ways if  that is what you  want. I don't want  either of us
hurt.”

A  noticeable grimace  of pain  hovered about  his mouth.  “I think  it's gone
beyond that, Chelle.”





Chapter Twenty-Five


That afternoon, Rochelle wrote Michael out a check to cover six months rent. She
called the  utility company to  change the service over  to her name,  ordered a
telephone, hired a  security firm to put  in the security system,  and moved her
things from  the motel to the  house. Michael went  back to the bank  and stayed
until closing  to give  her time to  get used to  her new  surroundings. Nothing
could have made her happier than leaving that tiny motel room.

She toured the  house, exploring each room, wanting to  become familiar with the
total layout. She removed the white sheets from the furniture and was pleasantly
surprised at how lovely  the furnishings and décor were. Someone  had put a lot
of  love  and effort  in  the  decorating of  the  house,  and Rochelle  guessed
Michael's mother was probably responsible long before his stepmother moved in.

Everything Rochelle  would need,  right down to  vacuum and  cleaning chemicals,
came with the house. All she would need to shop for was groceries.

When she  went through the bedrooms  upstairs, her biggest problem  was choosing
which bedroom to  sleep in. The master  bedroom was so much  more beautiful than
the other  rooms. Two rooms  contained decorations and  furnishings specifically
for two young men, likely the rooms Michael and his brother had once used.

The guest room was smaller, and the last one showed signs of someone using it as
a nursery in the distant past.

Rochelle kept glancing at the closed door to the master bedroom and realized the
room  would become  a nightmare  with  its door  always closed.  There was  only
one-way to  overcome the  fear, and  although Mabel stopped  by and  advised her
against it, she made a decision to  sleep in that room. Fortunately, the closets
were empty of all clothing and personal items once belonging to Michael's father
and stepmother, so at least there were no other reminders to dampen her spirits.
In fact, she felt  good, her life suddenly taking on  anticipation of having her
own house. With her car out on the  front driveway, she could come and go as she
chose without  someone to monitor  her. She was  free—at least she  was almost
free.

There was still Tobias.





“Sweetpea, what  in the world, are  you going to do  in this big house  all by
yourself?” Mabel wanted to know.

“I'm going to live in it and feel like a bird in flight for a change.

I like lots of space, Mabel. You will visit me often, won't you?

Maybe you can have lunch with me occasionally, or dinner?”

“I wouldn't miss it for anything. You just let me know when.”

“Michael is going to work on the kitchen after work and on weekends. When it's
finished, you'll be my first dinner guest.”

“Has Caroline bothered you anymore?” Mabel asked.

“No, should I expect some problem from her?”

“I don't know, Sweetpea. Caroline has a temper that makes her crazy. I am glad
Mikey finally saw the light. She was never right for him, not that he wanted her
particularly. She just wouldn't leave him alone.”

“You know him well, don't you?”

“I've known him since he was a little  boy. His daddy loved both his boys, but
sometimes I  thought he loved  Mikey the best.  He was smart  as a whip  and his
daddy liked to brag  that Mikey would be a banker like  him. He never considered
Mikey might have other plans, but he did, even when he was just a kid.

“He used to draw all the time, made sketches of anything he found interesting.
Then he started drawing houses and buildings                                   .

The outsides were like shells without  fruits, so he started designing the floor
plans. Even before he went away to college, he was already sharp in mathematics,
knew how to draw  his buildings to scale, and self-trained  himself in design. I
still have the  pictures he used to give  me when I would see him  on the street
sometimes.

“I'd say,  'Mikey, what  are you designing  today?' He would  look at  me with
those big blue eyes and smile, then say, 'I'm designing you a new house, Mabel.'
Then he would rip a  sheet from his drawing pad and give me.  I came to know him
pretty well in all those years, and he is about the nearest I have ever had to a
child of my own. I do love him like my own.”

“What was his mother like?”

“She was the most beautiful and gracious lady in Windy Point.

She was  gentle and sweet, and  in all the years  I knew her, I  never heard her
raise her voice to either of her children. Both her boys loved her, as did their
father. They all went a little insane with grief after her death.

“James quit eating,  lost weight, began drinking too much,  and that's when he
met Tina in some  bar. He was ripe for just about anything  in his life to drive
out the melancholy and depression. Tina was never right for him. She was a cheap
imitation of what James thought she was, and the only reason she married him was
because the man  was rich and could give  her what she wanted. Both  of the boys
hated her, and once they were away from home, they rarely came back for a visit.
When Michael  came for his father's  birthday party, just before  James and Tina
were killed, that was his first time in over a year.”

“How did he fare when they arrested him? Was it hard on him?”

“I should say it  was. Not only had he just lost his  father, but he also drew
blame for his  death. The judge refused to  give him bail, so he had  to stay in
jail, and during that  time, he knew his business in San  Francisco was taking a
beating without him to run it. That was hard on him. It was as if everything had
fallen out from under him, as if he had lost all control of everything important
in his life.

“I don't think he's  known real happiness since then. It  really messed him up
for months, but when he got involved with the bank, it sort of took his mind off
things, gave  him some purpose  on his father's  behalf. Mikey is  very special,
Sweetpea. I don't  know from where you  come or what your hopes  and dreams are,
but Mikey seems to think a lot of you. I hope you will be gentle with his heart.

He's had enough pain.”

“So have I, Mabel. Michael and I have that in common.”

Knowing Michael planned to come by after  the bank closed, Rochelle took a quick
spin to the market after Mabel left. She picked up everything she needed to make
spaghetti and a  salad. She bought a bottle  of wine, a loaf of  French bread so
she could  make garlic bread,  and some  fresh strawberries with  whipped cream.
Then she added coffee, milk, and  an assortment of staples and other necessities
every kitchen required. She ended up with a shopping cart loaded to overflowing.

At home—oh, how good it felt to think of the house as home—

she put  on the spaghetti sauce  to simmer. She  set the table in  the breakfast
room with  plates, cutlery, and candles,  praying all the while  that everything
would turn  out well.  It had  been years since  she cooked,  but her  memory of
making spaghetti  was still  vivid. She tasted  the spaghetti  sauce frequently,
added whatever she thought it needed, then  put the lid back on and adjusted the
burner. She was really having a good time puttering in the kitchen, doing simple
things, and feeling unusually  normal now that she had the freedom  to do as she
chose. She  understood how prisoners must  feel upon their initial  release from
confinement.

That thought made her  think of Michael. She could just  imagine how horrible it
was for  him, penned  up in some  awful jail,  and blamed for  the death  of his
father.

When Michael came by  after work, he had already been home  and changed into his
jeans and T-shirt. He arrived and  started hauling his toolbox into the kitchen,
ready to  start working.  When he  smelled the spaghetti  sauce, he  stopped and
sniffed. “I know that didn't come with the house,” he said, his sensual lips
curling into a pleasing smile.





“It's a  surprise. I'm making dinner  for you,” Rochelle stated,  smiling in
that generous way that showed her perfect white teeth.

He  looked at  her  questioningly. “I'm  impressed. I  didn't  know you  could
cook.”

She sent him  a censoring look. “There  are likely many things  you don't know
that I can do.”

“What are you cooking?”

“Spaghetti, with my own special sauce, too.”

“Why  aren't we  eating in  the dining  room?” Michael  asked when  Rochelle
escorted him into the breakfast room.

“I thought this would  be more warm and cozy. Dining rooms  are very large and
cold.”  She recalled  all the  times she  sat at  Tobias's long  dining table,
alone, waiting for him, when he never showed.

He cocked a brow and studied her. “Do I hear a hidden message there?”

“Probably, but we aren't going to discuss it and ruin our meal.

Have a seat, and let me serve you.”

“This is bound  to be good,” he  teased, watching her every  movement in the
white shorts worn with the sleeveless shirt.

Rochelle served  up two  plates of  spaghetti and loaded  it with  her delicious
homemade sauce. She served the salad and put two kinds of dressing on the table.
“I didn't know what kind you liked,”

she said, but I hoped you might like blue cheese.”

“That was a good guess,” he praised her.

“Will you pour the wine while I get the bread?” The garlic bread had browned
crusty hot  in the  oven. Rochelle put  it in  a bowl lined  with a  white linen
napkin and covered it to keep it warm. Then she joined Michael at the table.

She sat there watching him, waiting for him to taste everything.

He returned her gaze, and waited for her to begin the meal.





“Aren't you going to taste it?” she asked.

“Shouldn't I let you taste it first?” he teased.

She lifted her fork and twirled  spaghetti around the prongs, finally taking the
first bite.  She had already  tasted it  enough to know  that it had  turned out
better than  she expected.  “There! It didn't  burn or kill  me. Now,  you can
taste it.”

Michael smiled and lifted a forkful to his mouth. He licked his lips, chewed and
swallowed, then licked his lips again, all the while keeping a blank look on his
face.

“Well?” Rochelle demanded.

His face  softened with a big  smile. “Excellent,” he said.  “The sauce is
perfect. No way did  it come out of one of those jars  from the grocery store. I
should know because it's the only kind I've ever used.”

“It's a special recipe  I use, and you're right, it is  better than that stuff
from the market. Do you like it?”

“If all  of your cooking  is this  good, then I  hope you'll invite  me often.
There is nothing  like a good home-cooked meal. The  restaurant we've frequented
is okay for breakfast and lunch, but dinner is questionable.”

Michael had two large helpings, and looked as though he wanted more but admitted
he was  too full. When  it came dessert time,  they fed each  other strawberries
dipped  in whipped  cream, laughing  all the  while when  they purposely  dabbed
whipped cream on each other's face.

“I thought you were going to work on the kitchen after we ate?”

Rochelle said when he pulled her on his lap, fondling her familiarly.

“I can think of many things I'd rather  be doing, but since you gave me such a
wonderful dinner, I suppose I have to show my gratitude.”





He whispered something in her ear and she burst out laughing.

“No, absolutely not!”

She gave him  a hug then slid off  his lap, and started cleaning  off the table,
putting things  away while Michael  reluctantly turned  to the carpentry  in the
kitchen.  He became  serious now,  concentrating on  his task.  Rochelle enjoyed
watching him  work, so  she sneaked  glances while  she cleaned  up and  put the
dishes in the dishwasher.

“Can I help you with anything?” she asked after she finished.

He stopped  what he  was doing and  glanced up  at her, a  couple of  nails held
between his lips. “Not  at the moment,” he said from one  side of his mouth.
He used his measuring tape to measure a piece of wood, only mildly distracted by
her question.

“Then I'm going to run the vacuum in the living room.”





Chapter Twenty-Six


The serenity of Rochelle's coming days  knew no disturbances as she slowly eased
into a comfortable  routine revolving around familiarizing herself  with her new
residence and making new friends. Ruth and her husband stopped by to visit a few
minutes with her,  Mabel came by two  or three times per week,  and Rochelle had
made a  special point of  inviting Sally, the  waitress from the  restaurant who
befriended her. New faces of people whom Rochelle had not met previously stopped
by to  introduce themselves. They  brought cakes,  jams, and other  offerings of
welcome. In no time, she made a number of new friends.

Tillie  Somers, Michael's  housekeeper, whom  he was  willing to  share only  if
Tillie  would still  keep  her two  days  a week  job with  him,  moved in  with
Rochelle. Although she  proved an indispensable helper, both in  the kitchen and
as a housekeeper, Rochelle still cooked dinner for Michael on the nights when he
worked to complete his kitchen project. As promised, Rochelle shared Tillie with
Michael and the friendly woman worked at both houses.

Being a gentle  soul of meager finances,  Tillie could not have  been happier at
the opportunity  to live in the  Matheson home. It  was an honor for  her, since
many of the locals considered the house the initial foundation for the outgrowth
of their  small town. For  many who lived in  the little bedroom  community, the
Matheson  house  served similarly  to  a  memorial  depicting the  prestige  and
affluence accorded a small growing community through James Matheson's generosity
in  financing  the  entrepreneurs  of  small  businesses  needed  in  the  area.
Additionally, while  he was the  financial force  behind the town's  growth, his
wife was its grand lady of distinction.

The first  Mrs. Matheson was a  kind and caring  woman whose doors were  open to
people  of  the community.  She  knew  nearly everyone  in  her  small town  and
befriended  most of  them at  one time  or another.  She catered  to the  needy,
contributed her  time to  charities, and  was a  strong example  of what  a true
humanitarian was supposed to be. With such honorable people in a fine old house,
it stood  like a  monument of  prophetic significance and  meaning to  those who
forged a town from an empty cow pasture.

Now the house had  taken on an additional character. Not only  was it a memorial
to commemorate a town's birth and growth,  it was also a memorial for two people
murdered  within  its  walls.  The community  of  interested  spectators  looked
expectantly toward the new resident for any  mark she would leave on the overall
atmosphere surrounding the aura of the Matheson home.

Rochelle had no knowledge of the interest and speculation surrounding her, which
proved a blessing  since she chose to  avoid notoriety of any kind.  She grew so
contented with her new life, she could almost forget the dark scars implanted in
her soul by Tobias.

Only  occasionally  did she  have  renewed  flashes of  fear  that  kept her  on
guard  against the  inevitable possibility  of Tobias  finding and  killing her.
Nonetheless, following the first month of her newfound freedom, she could almost
believe Tobias had given up looking for her. She had been thinking he might find
someone else to replace her and would forget she existed.

She could not have been more wrong.



TOBIAS  AWOKE MID-MORNING,  the bright  light filtering  through and  around the
edges of  the drapes, hurting his  bloodshot eyes. He squinted  until his vision
adjusted, and  then glanced  at the clock  on the nightstand.  As he  did nearly
every  morning since  Rochelle  left,  with his  eyes  still  partly closed,  he
subconsciously reached across  the bed to enfold her in  his arms. The emptiness
of the bed  beside him caused his eyes  to snap open wider and he  stared at the
fluffed pillow where her head, framed with flaming gold hair, once lay.

With  a pained  jerk, he  pushed himself  up and  swung his  feet to  the floor,
cupping his aching head  in his hands. Rotating his head in  half circles on his
shoulders to release the tension, he stared at the empty space beside him, as if
by sheer will he  could bring her back to his bed and  into his life. Taking her
for granted as he  had done when she was with him, he  never considered he might
actually miss her if  she left him. Nevertheless, he did. He  missed her so damn
bad it actually  hurt. The smelly, perfumed  broads he kept falling  in the sack
with held not a candle to Rochelle's naiveté, innocence, and refinement.

Hammers were beating inside his skull  and any movement increased the intensity,
causing him to groan in pain. He shook  his aching head, trying to clear out the
cobwebs, unable  to recall  what business  he was supposed  to handle  that day.
Searching his mind like a blind man rifling through a filing cabinet, he glanced
across the room where a bureau sat. Like every other morning, he saw her picture
there, an eleven by fourteen enlargement she gave him in the early part of their
relationship before they  were married. A sickening loss clutched  at his chest,
it quickly turning to anger as he remembered  how she ran away from him, her act
upsetting  the  equilibrium  of  his  control over  his  business  and  personal
obligations.

Rushing across the room, he jerked  the framed photograph off the bureau, pulled
back his arm and almost flung it at the wall.

However, he stopped himself just in time,  as he did on the other occasions when
he had wanted to batter her within an  inch of her life. It took all his reserve
to keep from  destroying the picture at  moments of intense rage.  He really did
not want to  destroy it. He needed it,  wanted it to remember her  by, to remind
him of how much he both missed and wanted to kill her.

Almost  gently, he  put the  photograph back  in its  place, and  with his  back
stooping like that  of a beaten old  man, he slid his feet  laggardly across the
floor to the bathroom. He looked in  the mirror, gagging at the smeared lipstick
on his face,  the smell nauseating him.  He grabbed a toothbrush  and squeezed a
gob of toothpaste  onto the bristles. His tongue felt  thick, like hairs growing
out of  it, and his  breath sickened and  made him gag.  God, he must  have been
drunk and out of his mind to fuck that bitch with him last night.

“Shit, the broad might have given me something!”

That  would be  just his  luck, contacting  some disease  with all  his screwing
around,  and the  hell of  it all,  he  was usually  so damn  drunk he  couldn't
remember if  he enjoyed  it or not.  Half the  time he couldn't  even get  it up
anymore.

Rochelle was the reason. She was the cause of all his problems.





She was in his mind like a  cancer. Even drinking himself into oblivion couldn't
erase her image. All the angry contempt he  had felt for her before she ran away
had dissolved  as he recalled  the good things they  shared in the  beginning of
their relationship and marriage. Those were the things he missed and wanted back
again.

Nothing had gone right since she left.



Before she  ran away, it had  never occurred to him  he could miss her  so much.
Taking her for granted  when she had been with him, he could  not have known the
suffering  he would  experience over  losing her,  or realize  how severely  her
absence would affect his life.

Trying to replace her  with other women proved more a chore  than a comfort. The
women he once found  so amusing in the past suddenly  became sickening broads he
could no longer stand. Their makeup on his shirts, their cheap perfumes clinging
to his nostrils, the  musky smell of their sex left on his  body, all the things
previously used to  torment Rochelle with now repulsed him.  Not only that, last
night his sexual attempts  had failed to excite him, and  the bitch had actually
laughed at his limp  manhood. His flaccid penis scared the shit  out of him, and
he blamed it on Rochelle's absence. He  missed her. God, how much he missed her!
Why had  he treated her  so contemptible?  Why had he  abused her so  badly, his
cruelty driving her away from him?

In all the five years they were married, Rochelle showed quiet tolerance for all
his bad habits. Maybe  she had been scared shitless of  him, considering the way
he treated her, and was afraid to be assertive. Regardless of the reason for her
docile  attitude, he  recalled explicitly  how uplifting  her presence  was, how
homey she somehow made the huge, cold mansion seem; and the sad joke was that he
had not even realized it then.

Since she  left him, he  drank himself into a  stupor nightly; was  brought home
bodily by his so-called friends, and then  put to bed by his guards. Night after
night he hoped the booze would help him forget her, help him get just one decent
night's  sleep  without her  face  invading  his  brain  to leave  him  wakeful,
exhausted, and irritable.

The detectives  he hired to  find Rochelle, despite  him paying them  a fortune,
failed to come  up with a single trace  of her. It was as though  she had simply
disappeared from the face of the earth.  Even after all this time, he still sent
his men  out on the streets  with her picture  trying to find someone  who might
have  seen her.  Inquiries at  the  bus station,  with taxi  companies and  taxi
drivers, as well as airport personnel, rendered not a single trace.

Rochelle had taken several cabs during  the time she had transferred her savings
to the safe  deposit box. It was  a miracle that Tobias's men  or the detectives
hadn't encountered at least one of the drivers.

Tobias purposely  avoided filing a missing  person's report with the  police. He
could not  afford drawing attention to  himself, so he excluded  the police from
the search.  His wife was gone,  and he was going  out of his fucking  mind with
longing for her body, for her guileless personality that intrigued him and fired
his loins with yearning, and for her warm presence in his cold, cold mansion.

He showered and  called down to request  a pot of coffee. Ten  minutes later, he
gulped the  first cup, took  several aspirin and poured  a second cup.  With the
coffee clearing his head a little, he  remembered with another groan what was on
the agenda for the day.

He  dressed in  a  suit, not  looking  forward  to the  scheduled  trip down  to
Columbia. Bile rose  up in his throat and  he ran to the bathroom  and puked the
toilet  full of  foul smelling  vomit,  all the  while carrying  on an  internal
dialogue, telling himself he had to pull himself together. He was going down the
tubes unless he got a grip on himself and on his life.





He had  been so  out of sorts  the past  few weeks, his  contacts with  the drug
cartel  was finding  reason  to  criticize his  efforts,  to  threaten him  with
expulsion from their organization, or use  even worse methods of retaliation. He
knew he had to get his head together, and  he would not be able to do that until
he backed  off the alcohol. It  had become such  an addiction he wasn't  sure he
could leave it off.

A look in the mirror, however, told him  he must take control of his life again.
He looked  like hell—turning  gray and faded  like an old  man, and  taking on
wrinkles much sooner  than he should. His paunch had  grown another three inches
so his pants no longer fit properly,  and his belt would not accommodate another
hole to make it looser.

He went through every piece of  Rochelle's clothing hanging in the closet. Hell,
he went  through it daily,  touching and sniffing at  her scent like  a lovesick
fool. Her jewelry was still in the  chest, all pieces untouched except her watch
and the diamond wedding rings.

He wished  he had  a snapshot of  them. Perhaps passing  it around  would revive
someone's memory, since people's attentions  often focused on diamonds and shiny
baubles.  However, he  had nothing  to promote  his search.  How she  could have
disappeared without  a trace  was beyond  his imagination.  He never  would have
believed she had the guile or cunning to plan such a perfect scheme.

He turned on  the television and went  to the bathroom to shave,  the noise from
the television serving as a distraction to offset the silence of the room, which
was  like a  death pall  without Rochelle  there. More  and more,  he considered
filing a missing persons' report.

All his  other efforts  failed to offer  any clues, and  nearly deciding  he had
exhausted all  attempts to find  her, missing persons  was the only  thing left.
Without the police, he might never discover her whereabouts.





He pressed  his palm against  his forehead, both the  inside and outside  of his
skull throbbing so painfully all he wanted to do was go back to bed. Regretfully
though, the  flight to  Columbia was  only a few  hours away.  He needed  to get
himself together  and in gear,  maybe eat a huge  breakfast to ease  his bloated
stomach.

As he shaved, looking  into the mirror, he kept seeing her  face staring back at
him. He was sure the alcohol had screwed up his brain, probably burning up brain
cells so  his mind didn't work  so well. The  damage reflected in the  fact that
Rochelle's image embedded itself  in his mind and he was  unable to exorcise it.
It reminded  him of the way  he had awakened from  nightmares as a kid,  and the
nightmare continued like a movie reel even after he was wide-awake.

Day  and  night, her  face  haunted  him,  disrupting sleep,  subordinating  his
business obligations. Her absence made him a sick  son of a bitch, and it was an
area of his life he had no experience  with which to resolve the problem. He was
an intelligent man, but he knew he was  losing it. His head was so fucked up the
only way he was going to get it straight again was by finding Rochelle. The only
way he was going to do that was by filing a missing person's report.

He went back to the bedroom lifted  the phone, and pushed a button. “Dave, get
your fucking  ass up here,”  he yelled into the  receiver and plunked  it back
down. Dave was there in less than  two minutes, zipping his pants, fastening his
belt, and then buttoning up his shirt.

“What's up, boss?”  Dave's eyes gazed at  the bed that showed  only one side
slept on.  Like his boss, he  could not seem to  get used to the  idea that Mrs.
Matheson was  gone. Her  absence had  taken its toll  on his  boss, and  he knew
if  things  didn't get  better  soon,  they were  heading  for  disaster in  the
organization. Such laxness  on Tobias's part could leave holes  in the blueprint
of his  operation where some  sharp state  attorney might sneak  in unexpectedly
with an  all-out investigation. Aware  of an  ensuing situation, the  cartel had
been making threats, and not idly. They usually followed through, too. It didn't
help matters that  Chandler was so engrossed  over the loss of his  wife that he
failed to take their threats seriously.

He was courting disaster with some dangerous colleagues.

“I'm going to  the police, Dave,” he said, watching  Dave closely to measure
his reaction.

Dave never knew what to expect with  Tobias anymore. The man's moods could swing
far right or far left in a tenth of a second, and he was careful as hell what he
said to him. The least word or phrase that Tobias took offense to could send him
off on an insane tangent of verbal violence. “I thought you didn't want to use
the police,” Dave said, choosing the least antagonizing response.

“I've changed my mind.” He staggered and caught himself by grabbing onto the
bedpost. A wave of  dizziness nearly overcame him. When he  got his bearings, he
went to  a table  containing liquor and  glasses, and poured  a good  measure of
scotch in a glass. He drank it down at once, gagging in the aftermath.

“I'm  going fucking  crazy, Dave,”  he exploded  emotionally, and  big tears
rolled down his cheeks.

Fuck! Dave thought. The son of a bitch really is going crazy.

This whole operation is  going down the tube and me with  it, he thought, trying
to consider the best way out of impending disaster.

He might have to disappear like Matheson's wife.

“What do you want me to do, boss?” he asked in a calm and businesslike voice
with no hint of the sudden discontent over the present state of affairs.

“We're going to the police and file a missing person's report.

What do you think about that, Dave?  You think it'll be okay?” He sounded like
a kid  trying to get  his father's approval. He  pulled a handkerchief  from his
pocket and  blew loudly into it,  and let out  a fart that reverberated  off the
walls.

Dave backed away from  the smell. “Sure, boss, if that's what  you want to do.
They  send pictures  over  their  computers and  fax  machines  to other  police
stations. Maybe some sharp rookie might have  seen her and can pair her with the
picture.”

Glancing toward the king sized bed  again, Dave waited for Chandler to challenge
his remarks, dismiss him, or tell him what to do next.

“Well, what in  the hell are we waiting for?”  Chandler snapped, lifting the
decanter to pour another generous drink.

“Boss, there's something here you  ought to see,” Dave interjected, carrying
the morning paper in his hand, and  reluctantly holding it out to Tobias. “The
police raided the warehouse last night.

The paper says  it's the biggest drug  bust ever made in Miami.  The losses were
the greatest ever, and they have four of  our guys in the slammer. The other two
were buyers.”

Tobias froze,  grabbing the paper  and letting his eyes  scan down the  page. He
flung the  paper across  the room where  it hit a  vase on  a table and  sent it
shattering to the floor. His hands were shaking like a jackhammer vibrating. His
heartbeat accelerated and his face turned bloody red.

“Buyers, like hell you say! They were probably goddamned feds. That damned son
of a bitch who was handling the sale did not check them out. What in the hell is
wrong with everybody? Can't any fucking body do anything right without me having
to lead them by a leash?”

Tobias's  gray eyes  glittered like  ice and  his face  settled in  stern, grave
lines. He marched over to the broken vase and snatched the paper from the floor,
glancing with maddening  little jerks as he scanned the  lines again beneath the
bold heading: Drug Bust Produces Largest Yield Yet.

Tobias  grabbed  the   phone  and  dialed.  The  voice   that  answered  sounded
half-asleep.  “Tanner,  you drag  your  fat  ass out  of  bed,  and read  this
morning's paper. Then  get the fuck downtown before some  feisty detective turns
their heads with promises  of a deal. Bail them out if you  can, and I'll handle
it from there.”

“Chandler,  why in  the hell  can't you  call at  normal times  like everybody
else?” Tanner demanded  through a sleepy yawn, knocking something  over on his
bedside stand as he reached to turn the clock for a better view.

Tobias didn't bother to answer. He slammed down the phone.

He was considering canceling his trip  to Colombia when his phone began ringing.
“Yeah!”  he snapped  impatiently, suddenly  softening his  tone considerably
when he heard the  voice on the phone. “Good morning, Mr.  Sanchez, what can I
do for you?”

“Chandler, I just  got a call from  Gonzalez. How in the  fuck could something
like this have happened?  I told you a month ago to  find another location. What
do I  have there, a fucking  bunch of old women  handling my stuff? What  in the
hell are you doing about it?

You son of a bitch, either you get  off your ass, or I'm going to personally cut
your damn  balls off, then  chop you  up in little  pieces for fish  bait.” He
screamed out a long expletive in Spanish.

Tobias listened to  his own voice, it  sounding like a tired  old man, quavering
and hoarse. He cleared  his throat. “I've been in touch  with the attorney. He
is on his way down there as we speak. If he can get them out on bail, I will see
to everything else. Do you still want me  to fly down there today? This might be
a good time for me to stay here.”

“Take care  of it, and  then get the  fuck down here.  We have some  things to
discuss. Either you shape  up you son of a bitch, or  ship out, Chandler. You're
leaving too many cracks in security, and  you would be wise to either straighten
out the problem with  the bitch you married, or get rid  of her. She's affecting
your efficiency.”

With another burst of curses in Spanish, he severed the connection.

Tobias  hung up  the phone  and stood  staring at  it. Gonzalez  must have  told
Sanchez about Rochelle leaving,  he suspected. The son of a  bitch was after his
job!

Dave was still standing there waiting for further instructions.

“You still want to go downtown and file that missing person's report, boss?”
Dave sounded about as humble as any human being could be, lest he provoke Tobias
at a  very charged moment.  He knew Chandler's temper,  and he damn  well didn't
want to be the butt of it.

“Hell, yes, that's what I said, isn't  it? Bring the car around. I'll meet you
downstairs.”

Dave left  the room,  thinking things  were only  going to  get worse  if Tobias
stayed on the booze. His boss knew  how serious things had become, but he seemed
unable to focus  beyond thoughts of his  wife. Dave was certain  the alcohol had
more to  do with it  than did Mrs.  Chandler's leaving. Sanchez  couldn't afford
incompetence, and  he never fired people;  he killed them. Dave's  biggest worry
was  that he  would be  in the  crossfire when  they took  out Chandler.  He was
thinking seriously of  pulling out. He just  didn't know how to go  about it and
still avoid the  fate three previous guards had met,  along with numerous others
tied to the organization.

Dave had no idea how Chandler managed it, but Johnson, Mrs.

Chandler's chauffeur, had been found a  couple of weeks after her disappearance.
Someone discovered him in a trash bin near the bus station with his brains blown
out. That  bit of insight  made Dave think twice  about trying to  disappear. He
wondered how in the hell Mrs. Chandler  had done it so successfully, at least so
far.





Tobias got on  the phone, calling everyone together for  that afternoon. Sanchez
would have  liked him to  find a way  to get his coke  back, but if  that wasn't
possible, the  next move  was to  protect the new  shipment scheduled  two weeks
away.

If something should happen to it…

Tobias avoided thinking about that. He just  wanted to think of Rochelle and the
difference it  would make in his  life if he had  her with him. Things  had gone
like clockwork with her close by to  keep his head balanced. Now, everything was
going to hell.

He would file his missing person's report, have his meeting that afternoon, wait
until Tanner bailed the  four bastards out, if he could, who  had caused all his
problems, and then when they were taken care of he would fly down to Colombia.

Maybe by the time he came back, there would be some word on Rochelle.





Chapter Twenty-Seven


Caroline was breaking for lunch when she passed by the facsimile machine and saw
it spitting out a photograph of a  woman. Usually she never let anything disrupt
her lunchtime, but  something about the photograph caught her  attention and she
waited to have a  better look. Although it was a black and  white, the full head
of hair looked  familiar, the eyes resembling that bitch  who stole Michael from
her.

The facial features defined her like a reflection in a mirror.

She ripped it apart from the other faxes  and held it away from her for a better
look,  her farsightedness  making close-up  visibility a  bit blurred  since her
glasses lay beside the switchboard. She  ran back and grabbed them, ignoring the
office clerk sitting in for her, and  nearly sticking the earpiece in her eye in
her rush to put them on. She stared  at the picture, and reality dawned upon her
that the likeness was  a worthy reflection of the redheaded  bitch. A slow smile
etched the corners of her mouth, growing into a toothy grin.

“Well,  I'll be  damn!”  she snorted.  The sandwich  she  brought for  lunch
slipped her mind.  She went to the  tiny lounge and read the  information on the
faxed document,  and then  poured herself a  cup of coffee.  The woman  might be
missing, but it  was by choice, Caroline figured. Yet,  somebody was looking for
her.

She finished  reading the  information while  considering what  to do  about the
missing person's  report. She  plopped down  upon a  chair, considering  as many
possible implications  as her mind  would register.  Why was the  bitch missing?
Further, who wanted her  bad enough to put out a  missing person's report? Could
it  be a  concerned parent?  Maybe it  was  an irate  lover, or  even a  jealous
husband.

Getting out  of the chair,  she went  back to the  little alcove where  the copy
machine sat on a  table, and made a copy of the  fax transmission. Looking about
to make  sure she was unobserved,  she buried the original  behind other missing
persons' reports, and then  stared at the copy while she  returned to the lounge
for her lunch break. She would handle  this little matter from home where no one
would interfere, and she could perhaps have more time to gather information that
was available about—she looked at the name. “Mrs.

Rochelle Chandler,” she whispered to herself.

That answered the question of who was looking for her.

Rochelle Rathbone had changed her name to escape her husband.

Caroline was  only sorry it  wasn't a wanted poster.  She would have  liked that
even better.

Remembering her  lunch, she went to  the refrigerator and plucked  her brown bag
from the fridge. She went back and  plopped down in the empty chair, pulling her
bologna sandwich  from the  bag. Unwrapping  it with the  free hand  that wasn't
holding the missing person's  report, she lifted it to her mouth  and took a big
bite,  smiling all  the while,  her eyes  glittering over  her bitter  taste for
vengeance.

Several hours later,  after she left work for  the day, she was on  the phone as
soon as  she arrived home, but  not to the  police department in Miami.  She was
talking to the  operator and writing down names and  addresses and phone numbers
of all  the Chandlers listed.  Then she started  calling each one,  crossing off
names one after the other until she had crossed off all. The Chandler she sought
obviously had an unlisted number.

“Damn it!” she  swore and realized she  would have to go  through the Police
Department in Miami.  She dared not call  them while she was away  from her job,
just in case they needed to call back to verify the information.

She took  care of it as  soon as she arrived  to work the next  morning. Feeling
exhilaration, she hoped if things worked  out as planned, Mrs. Rochelle Chandler
would be history in  a couple of days. All ready Caroline  planned how she would
get back  in Michael's good  graces. He would be  disheartened and sad  over his
loss and would need a sympathetic friend to lean on.

“Hot damn!” She slapped her fist in the palm of her hand. “Mrs.

Rochelle Chandler, your  husband must want you  pretty bad to put  out a missing
person's  report on  you. You're  about  to be  history in  Windy Point,”  she
mumbled to herself.



ROCHELLE HAD  BEEN IN  HER new  residence for  a period  of nearly  four months.
Michael put as much spare time as he could on remodeling the kitchen, and it was
nearing completion. Left  alone by Tillie Somers, who liked  attending church on
Wednesday evenings, Rochelle and Michael enjoyed an intimate dinner together.





Before Michael started on his carpentry chores for the evening, he took Rochelle
in his arms and kissed her. When he would have turned to his carpentry, she held
onto  him. She  traced her  fingers over  his lips,  watching them  grow into  a
delicious smile she could hardly ignore. She kissed him, letting her hands trail
along his shoulders,  down his back, grasping his buttocks  and pressing herself
against him.

“Honey, do you  know what you're doing,”  he inquired with a  sly twinkle in
his eyes.

“I believe I might, but if you think I need to be instructed…”

Needing no further convincing, Michael waltzed  Rochelle up the stairs, and made
passionate love to her in the room where his father and stepmother had met their
deaths. He and Rochelle  both had grown familiar with the room  by now, and were
troubled only fleetingly by what happened there. Her theory about using the room
instead of leaving it locked had proven to be sound reasoning.

Maybe there was something to that cliché about looking fear in the eye.

There  was something  unusually  special about  their  lovemaking that  evening.
Michael was never more amorous, and Rochelle never more loving and affectionate.
As he kissed her lips and breasts  and navel, his hands sluicing over her entire
body to send  her into delirious shimmering  ecstasy, she clung to  him as never
before, returning kiss for kiss, caress for caress, and embrace for embrace.

When  he eventually  ended  the foreplay  to relieve  their  eager yearnings  by
sliding inside her, she whispered her love for him for the first time ever. “I
love you, Michael. I love you.”

It was a  poignant moment and Michael crushed  her into his arms as  if he would
never let  her go,  his own mutterings  of love warming  his breath  against her
cheeks. They were in love, a glorious condition both accepted.





They spent  much longer  than they  planned in  bed that  evening, and  only the
thought of Tillie coming  home from church to find them  gave them the incentive
needed to crawl from its comfort and get dressed.

“Honey, I've sure  messed up my plans  tonight. I intended to  get the kitchen
finished before I left. Now I won't be able to. It's getting late.”

“Do you want to wait and work on it tomorrow night?”

Rochelle asked him,  gazing into his eyes  with so much love it  poured into his
veins through her touch.

Kissing her, he muttered,  “I'll work for about an hour, and  then maybe I can
finish up tomorrow.”

“I'll balance  my checkbook  while you  do that,” she  said, smiling  at his
earlier inquiry to see if she was keeping good financial records.

They went downstairs where Michael went straightway to the kitchen, and Rochelle
went  to the  living  room  where her  checkbook  lay on  a  table  next to  the
calculator Michael gave her.

She  was subtracting  purchases and  putting totals  in her  checkbook when  the
doorbell rang. Thinking it was Tillie who  likely forgot her key on her way home
from church Rochelle went and opened the door.



A BLAST OF SUN PARCHED AIR, putrid with  the smell of aged booze and sweat, blew
through the open doorway.

Rochelle froze in her tracks!

Her heart stopped beating.

She gasped and stepped back, eyes growing round with shock and fright. Her heart
seemed to plummet to the floor from her chest.

She felt a  scream rise in her throat,  but no sound escaped. She  was a statue,
frozen as stiff  and still as she  was during and after one  of her immobilizing
nightmares.

Tobias stood at her door, appearing as tall, powerful, and domineering as he had
ever been  before. His  face looked  dark, angry, and  dangerous. His  beard had
grown since his morning  shave, and thick dark growth on his  jaws and chin gave
him an ominous  appearance that made Rochelle's skin crawl.  He stood looking at
her for  several seconds, neither  of them saying  anything, just staring  as if
neither could believe what they saw.

Then a slight flicker of pleasure  eased the hardness of Tobias's features. When
the  first  stab of  shock  passed,  Rochelle's  mouth  fell open  in  surprise,
solidifying her expression like a frozen block  of ice. When she could think and
move again,  she shoved hard at  the door, trying  to close it in  Tobias's face
before he crossed the threshold. She was too late.

He jerked his arm up, shooting it out so his palm stopped the door from closing.
He  immediately moved  inside,  pushing  past Rochelle.  At  that same  instant,
Rochelle saw he wasn't alone. A woman stepped inside behind him, a puckish smile
on her face. She was full of herself, unusually pleased.

“Where's Michael?” Caroline asked in a tone besmirched by a mixture of anger
and triumph over finally getting even. “I told the son of a bitch I'd get even
with him, and I hope I have. Does he know you had a husband looking for you?”

If Caroline had known Michael was in the kitchen just a short distance away, she
would have been more careful with her outburst.

The fact  that he  always parked in  the garage so  neighbors wouldn't  know the
amount of time  he spent there served as a  deceptive measure against gossipers,
and obviously against Caroline as well.

Yet,  she could  not  resist the  temptation  of showing  up  with Chandler  and
watching Mrs.  Rochelle Chandler's face as  her husband shocked the  shit out of
her with his unexpected presence.

Rochelle guardedly backed  away, daring not to even imagine  what Tobias planned
for her. Would she wind up in some  swamp in Florida, her remains carried off by
alligators  and other  wild animals,  or did  he have  more immediate  plans for
getting rid of her?

Caroline kept  up her accusations in  a burst of curses  and strong disapproval.
“You little  bitch, you  should have  known better than  mess with  me,” she
cursed, not once noticing the dark disapproval growing in Tobias's eyes.

Rochelle saw it though, as she stood locked into a frozen stance between her two
enemies, staring at  a despised husband on  one side, and a  sick and embittered
woman on the other.

“I hope to  hell you get what you deserve!”  Caroline snorted contemptuously
and took a lunge toward Rochelle with an outstretched hand.

Before Rochelle could back away, Tobias reached out an arm, catching Caroline by
the collar of  her shirt. He snatched  her back, an ugly snarl  about his mouth.
“Get the  fuck out of  here!” Tobias cursed, and  sent a staggering  blow to
Caroline's cheek, unbalancing her, sending her slamming to the floor.

Caroline lay there,  temporarily stunned. Then, upon seeing  Tobias bending over
her with his  arm pulled back, a balled  fist ready to crash into  her face, she
suddenly cowered away from him, slithering and sliding on her backside along the
floor toward the door. She thrust herself across the threshold, gaining her feet
in a frantic  motion of startled flight.  Turning her back on  her attacker, her
feet took  wings and she ran  as fast as they  would carry her to  some place of
concealment outside.





Now, with  no one to interrupt  them, Tobias reached out  and grasped Rochelle's
shoulders. “Baby, I've missed you like hell. I've come to take you home.”

His eyes took  on a bright glow as  they traveled her length and back  up to her
face. His right hand  slid in a caress up and down her  bare arm, the fingers of
his other hand combing through her long silky strands of hair.

His  attitude was  hardly what  Rochelle  expected. Seeing  him at  her door,  a
flashing thought warned  her he was there  to carry out his threat  to kill her.
She had been certain that her death was imminent.

Now, she wasn't  sure what Tobias's intentions  were except to take  her back to
Miami. Did he plan to  wait until he got her home to kill  her, or had he really
missed her  and wanted  to continue from  where they had  been before  she left?
Either way served  no worthy choice for  her. Her life was about  to become hell
again.

“Get whatever things you want. We're  leaving,” he said more gently than she
could ever remember, his fingers now tracing a path along her cheek as though he
found fulfillment in the mere touch of her.

She  thought of  Michael just  a few  steps away  in the  kitchen. A  prayer ran
through her head that he would not hear  the commotion, or that he would not try
to intervene.  She had  no doubt  Tobias would use  whatever force  required for
dealing with Michael.

Rochelle shook her head, her hair flaring out as if wind-blown.

The words came  pouring from her mouth,  a desperate plea. “No,  Tobias. No. I
don't want to  go back with you. Just  go away and leave me in  peace. Please, I
beg you.”

“I can't do that, baby. I have missed you like hell. I need you,”

he admitted,  pulling her against him,  his sickening scent of  sweat, and stale
alcohol breath creating an offensive zone all around him.





“You don't  need me. You have  all your other  women. Just let me  go, Tobias.
Just let  me go.”  Tears invaded her  eyes, blinding her  and she  stood there
staring  at  him, her  life  suddenly  shattered  by  his presence,  her  future
threatened by the man she loathed and despised.

“God, I  want you  so much,” he  invoked hungrily. In  a single  motion that
caught Rochelle off guard, he clamped his mouth upon her lips.

Snatching her head back away from him, an involuntary scream tore from her lips.
She struggled uselessly to get away from  him, but his strength was no match for
her. While  he grasped  her at the  nape of  her neck, she  watched as  his lips
descended upon hers, claiming what he silently vowed was his to take.

“Let her  go, Chandler!”  Michael's voice came  from the  doorway, strangely
calm.

Rochelle cringed inside with fright, struck by the memory that Tobias never went
anywhere without a  gun. Even before she  could open her mouth  to warn Michael,
Tobias was pulling the gun from the waistband of his pants, pointing it straight
at Michael.

“Noooooooo!” Rochelle screamed, throwing herself in the path of the gun, and
was instantly snatched back by Tobias's firm jerk on her arm.

He pulled the trigger,  firing a single shot, and Rochelle  watched in horror as
Michael  crumpled  to the  floor,  blood  flowing  from  his wound  and  quickly
spreading in a red puddle on the carpet beneath him.

Rochelle  screamed,  instinctively wanting  to  run  to  Michael, to  hold  him,
minister to him,  and help him. Instead,  she saw Tobias taking  aim for another
shot, and with all her strength, she jerked from Tobias's hold and threw herself
between the gun and Michael.

The gun pointed straight at her chest  this time, and she squeezed her eyes shut
waiting for the explosion of the bullet to penetrate her flesh.

In that instant, Rochelle  felt her whole world sliding away  from her. No sound
came from Michael  and her heart felt  like a time-bomb ready  to explode inside
her  chest with  pain and  fear that  Michael might  be dead  or dying.  Without
Michael, life wouldn't be worth living, and  a bullet from Tobias's gun would be
a blessing.

Anything would  be better  than returning to  Miami with him.  Sobs rose  in her
throat and burst from her mouth.

Then she heard a sound, a scrape,  some small movement that told her Michael was
alive, and  her only purpose in  life at that moment  was to keep him  alive, to
protect him with her own life however she could.

“No Tobias, please, I beg you!” she cried hysterically, still using her body
as a shield for Michael against the gun Tobias aimed at him.

“He has nothing  to do with any  of this,” she continued.  “Just leave him
alone, I  beg you. If  you kill him,  you will have to  kill me, too!  Leave him
alone and I  will go with you right  now! We will walk out that  door right now!
I'll do anything you ask of me!” she cried desperately.

Tobias's finger seemed to  press harder on the trigger. He waved  the gun to one
side of Rochelle, then the other, trying to get a good shot at Michael. Rochelle
moved with the gun,  defying his attempt to pull her aside  with his other hand,
her body the  only protection against Tobias firing a  fatal shot into Michael's
body.

“No, Rochelle!”  Michael invoked through a  spasm of pain as  he watched her
attempting to deflect a bullet from him with her body.

She was afraid  to turn her back on  Tobias, fearing he would point  the gun and
shoot again. At least Michael was alive,  and that was the only important thing.
Nothing else mattered except keeping him alive.

“Walk toward the door,  Baby,” Tobias said, still trying to  get a clear aim
at Michael while Rochelle continued her  dance to shield Michael against the gun
pointed at her chest.

She smelled the rotgut scent of  alcohol on Tobias's breath, nearly gagging from
it,  knowing he  was drunk.  She  knew the  threat of  prosecution for  shooting
Michael was the least of his concern now. He would kill Michael without blinking
an eye.

“Tobias, please listen to me. If you want  me to go with you, then let us both
walk to the door.  If you shoot him again, I will not  go anywhere with you. You
might as well just go ahead and shoot me, too.”

Tobias  wavered, seeing  Michael  was  in no  condition  to  present a  problem.
However, he knew  the loud explosion of the gunshot  might have prompted someone
to call  the police;  thus, getting  the hell  away from  there seemed  the most
important thing on his  agenda now. He lowered his arm, stuck  the gun back into
his belt, and then grabbing Rochelle's arm, moved toward the door.

“No, Rochelle!” Michael cried out as he struggled to gain his footing. Blood
flowed from his wound, and his strength was quickly dwindling. He watched Tobias
nearly drag Rochelle out the front door.

From the clump of  bushes where she hid, Caroline crouched  and watched. She saw
Chandler push  Rochelle in the back  seat of the  car driven by another  man. He
crawled in behind her, closed the door, and the car sped down the street.





Chapter Twenty-Eight





After the car was  out of sight, Caroline ran inside  the house, stepping warily
across the threshold, not sure what she would find after having heard a gunshot.
She  eased deeper  into the  room, her  eyes scanning  about until  they lit  on
Michael struggling frantically to get to his feet. She ran to him.

Her face registered alarm.  “Oh my God, Michael, I didn't  know you were here.
Are you hurt badly?  Are you all right? Oh God, I'm sorry.  I'm so sorry,” she
cried, reaching  out to  touch him,  honestly touched by  an emotion  other than
anger for  a change. She was  fearful and teary  eyed by awareness that  she was
indirectly responsible for the harm done Michael. The police could charge her as
an accomplice, considering  how she manipulated the system to  get in touch with
Chandler.

“Sorry for  what, Caroline?” he  demanded, staggering  to his feet  with her
support, and walking  unsteadily toward the phone. “What were  you doing here?
Why are you sorry?”

“I'm sorry I told him. I had no idea it would turn out like this.”

She was noticeably rattled or else, she would have kept her mouth shut.

“You told him?” Michael exclaimed, completely confused by her admission. How
“in the hell did you know him?”

“There was a missing  person's report sent to the station.  I called Miami and
informed them Mrs. Chandler was here. I  left my name with them and Mr. Chandler
called me directly. I had no idea he was that sort of person.”

Suddenly realizing  the magnitude of  what she had  done and the  damage wrought
already, Caroline was  scared. “Oh, God, you don't suppose  he'll hurt her, do
you?”





Contempt and  disgust filled  the look Michael  sent her. The  side of  her face
looked red as if it had received a hard impact from a hand. The skin beneath her
eye was turning purple.

Caroline saw  him looking  at her face.  “He hit  me. The son  of a  bitch hit
me.” Her eyes blinked  wildly, and she kept looking back  at the door, fearing
Tobias might come back.  She was scared out of her wits, and  was out of form at
the moment.

Michael  snatched his  arm  away  from her,  her  touch  more contemptible  than
anything he could imagine.  He was thinking she deserved worse  than a slap, but
he bit back the venom he felt.

Finally, gaining his footing, he struggled across the floor to the telephone and
called the police, a task Caroline should have thought of, but she was presently
mentally rattled. What he  really would like to have done  is go after Chandler,
but he  knew he wouldn't  get far  in his condition.  The bullet hadn't  hit any
major organs, but he  was losing a great deal of blood, which  left him weak and
dizzy.

Tillie  Somers, just  getting home  from  Wednesday night  prayer meeting,  came
rushing through the open door. “Good Lord, Mr.

Matheson, what in the  name of God has happened here?” she  cried when she saw
his bloody  shoulder and  chest where  the blood  ran down  and soaked  into his
shirt.

“Tillie, it's a  long story. Take the keys  and lock up here after  I leave. I
have to go to  the hospital. Take a suitcase and stay at  my place tonight or as
long as needed. I don't think Rochelle will be here anytime soon.”

“Mr. Matheson, that sweet, gentle girl didn't hurt you, did she?”

“No, Tillie. That sweet, gentle girl  wouldn't hurt a fly,” he said, glaring
at Caroline with contempt in his eyes. He was pressing his wound, trying to stop
the bleeding, but  it wasn't stopping and  he feared he would pass  out soon. He
called Mabel,  who said she  would be  right there the  second after he  said he
needed her.  Tillie went  running to the  kitchen and brought  back a  towel for
Michael.

The police came, which was really a  waste of time. Michael hoped they would put
out  an APB  on Tobias  for kidnapping,  but he  could not  make the  new rookie
believe a man had kidnapped his own wife. It seemed Caroline was the only person
who worked  at the police  station who knew  about the Missing  Person's Report,
which should  have been sufficient  indication that  Rochelle didn't want  to be
found by her husband.

“Did she  struggle when they  were leaving?” the policeman  inquired. Stupid
question, Michael  thought, as the  young cop in uniform  tried to look  and act
professional.

“No, she was coerced into agreeing to  leave with him to keep him from putting
another slug  in me,” Michael  said irritably. When that  made no dent  in the
thick skull of  the policeman, Michael tried another tactic.  “The last time I
heard, it was  against the law for a  man to shoot another man.  Don't you think
that deserves an APB on him?

“What's the license number?”

Michael shook his head in despair. He had no idea what the license number was or
the kind of car. “How in the hell am  I supposed to know? I was inside all the
time.”

“I think it was  a rental car because I heard them  say something about having
flown here on  a plane.” Caroline spoke up, still  looking frantic and worried
over her foolish blunder.

“What color  was the car? What  was the model?” The  rookie policeman asked.
His pen was poised between his fingers,  and his tiny writing pad was taking his
complete attention.

“Hell,  what difference  does it  make,” Michael  cursed. “Before  you get
around to doing anything, they can be out of the country.”





“It was a  black car, but I couldn't determine  the make,” Caroline supplied
for them, shrugging her arms and hands in a pose of uncertainty.

The policeman spoke into his two-way radio.

Car lights shone  outside just seconds before Mabel rushed  through the door and
headed straight for Michael. “Mikey, good Lord, what has happened? Are you all
right? Where is Sweetpea?”

“I need a ride to the hospital, Mabel. I'll fill you in on the way.”

Looking at Tillie, he  said, “Tillie, lock up and take care  of things for me,
please.”

“I will,  Mr. Matheson.  You don't need  to worry about  anything, but  if you
don't mind, I'd rather stay here for the time being.”

“If you're comfortable with that, I don't  mind,” he told her, and then went
with Mabel. The rookie was at his heels asking further nonsensical questions.

Other police cars screamed onto the  scene and several policemen swooped down on
them, dogging Michael for information while he climbed into Mabel's car. A small
town police  department employed men who  seemed to have only  half the training
that they  did in larger  cities. Michael swore  they were all  rookies. Anyway,
hadn't he seen the kind of work they did when his father and Tina were murdered.
The bastards  were inept, he  thought, and slammed the  car door in  their faces
before Mabel drove away.

Caroline came  out on the  gallery in time to  watch Michael crawl  into Mabel's
car. With the lights of police cars  lighting up the place, Michael caught sight
of Caroline, and glared his contempt for her.

She recoiled in alarm at the blazing  anger on his face, knowing without a doubt
that whatever she had  shared with Michael was over for good.  What she had done
was  unforgivable. Her  actions  could  very well  have  gotten  him killed.  In
afterthought, she  speculated it was  reasonable to believe Chandler  might very
well kill his wife, and if he did, she, Caroline, would be an accomplice.

With her head bowed remorsefully, she begged a ride with a policeman, who wanted
to know what in  the hell she was doing there in the  first place. She made some
nonsensical answer, not wanting to revisit her part in the whole situation.

Tobias  Chandler, who  had been  happy  to pick  Caroline  up in  order to  gain
directions to Rochelle, had used her, just  as she had used him. The anticipated
thrill of flaunting  Tobias in Michael's face,  and the joy in  letting him know
she was responsible for setting Tobias on  Rochelle, was gone. In its place, was
a dull throbbing ache etched with stirrings  of strong guilt and a sense of loss
that was as  final as anything she  had ever experienced. She  used bad judgment
and it cost her every opportunity of any further relationship with Michael, even
friendship. In  addition, she would lose  her job—or maybe have  charges filed
against  her—when word  reached  her  boss that  she  precipitated the  entire
situation that got Michael shot and Rochelle abducted.

She would be an  outcast from now on in this small town.  For the most part, she
all ready was, and knowing that, she made a decision.

It was time to move on.





Chapter Twenty-Nine


Tobias was confident he had covered all  bases. While the police in Bozeman were
checking  the  airport  for  Miami  fares,  and racing  up  and  down  the  main
thoroughfare looking  for a black car,  Tobias, Rochelle, and Dave  were already
airborne in the plane that awaited them at the small airfield not far from Windy
Point. Things  went exactly as he  planned. His only disappointment  was that he
had not killed  Matheson, then there would  be no witnesses against  him for the
shooting, except Rochelle, but he could handle her.

No doubt,  there would  be a warrant  out for  his arrest, but  he hoped  he had
enough  manpower in  the  police  department to  curtail  an  arrest by  issuing
sufficient payoffs. For the time, only one notion was paramount in his thoughts;
he was going to  enjoy having his beautiful wife back in  his life. Her presence
had already  sent a  new surge of  energy through him  that felt  like wholesome
renewal.

He glanced at  his wife, who sat  with stooped back, her arms  folded across her
lap, and her head drooping nearly to her knees.

She was clearly distressed, but he would use  his old charm on her, as he did in
the beginning of their relationship, and bring her around again. He reached over
and put his arm around her. She  jerked to an upright sitting position and tried
to  shrug off  his arm.  He tightened  it about  her, drawing  her close,  until
resting  her head  against  his shoulder  became necessary  to  avoid a  cramped
position.

“I've missed you, baby. Things are going  to be different this time, I promise
you.”

Rochelle recalled  that promise. It  was something he  said on all  the mornings
after he put her  through a night of abuse. Then he forgot  the promise the next
day after he started  drinking again. He was the devil and he  was taking her to
hell with him.

His  day-old beard,  which  was  like tiny  prickly  spears, scraped  Rochelle's
forehead where his chin rested. He smelled like a barroom the morning after, the
scent of soured booze and sweat radiating from his body heat. He lit a cigarette
and the smoke wallowed  in the space around them like  clouds, the stench adding
to Tobias's disgusting smell

The  sound of  his voice  grated  on Rochelle's  nerves. Angry  bile gorged  her
stomach. She made no reply to  his statement, holding her face expressionless as
she always had done with Tobias. All  the while, her brain roiled in misery over
concern for  Michael. She knew  the bullet hadn't killed  him, and that  was the
only consolation for  the hell that surely  lay ahead of her. Still,  she had no
idea how bad his wound was, and all  she could do was say silent prayers for his
survival. A  dead numbness  took hold of  her, it a  reprieve against  having to
think of the prison she was returning  to and Tobias's domination over her life.
Everything felt  dead inside  her except  the terrible misery  she now  felt and
would continue to face.

“Talk to  me, baby. I know  you are upset  now, but you'll see,  things really
will  be different.  I won't  hurt you  anymore, and  there won't  be any  other
women.”

Dave sat staring off in space, trying  to keep a stone face against exposing his
contempt of Tobias' behavior.  He was sure the man didn't know  what in the hell
he wanted. One minute he was degrading  Rochelle, screaming that he was going to
kill her and the  next he was trying to woo her again.  He was unpredictable and
capricious where Rochelle was concerned. He  had little sympathy for anyone, but
now he almost felt sorry for her.

Rochelle yearned to tell Tobias he could have  as many women as he wanted and it
would not matter to her, but inciting  his anger would serve no purpose. Despite
his declaration  not to hurt  her anymore,  she knew it  was a lie.  His caustic
temper wouldn't allow  him to remain in  this repenting frame of  mind for long.
Once the  newness of her return  wore off, and it  would very soon, he  would be
back  to his  old habits  of avenging  any anger  she aroused,  whether she  did
anything to cause it or not. Actually,  she didn't have to do anything. Tobias's
vicious bent for control caused him to manufacture reasons for vengeance.





She thought  about Caroline,  and about  why she did  what she  did. It  was for
vengeance—just like with Tobias. Caroline  had wanted vengeance and had nearly
gotten Michael killed.

“Tobias, I don't  know what you expect  me to say,” she  replied, taking the
middle ground she learned from long-practiced survival techniques with Tobias.

“Just tell me you're glad to see me, that we can put things together again.”

God, his ego was as inflated as a balloon, Rochelle thought.

And oddly, she  knew he was sincere  for the moment, as sincere  as someone like
him could be, but in no time at  all, when he didn't get the desired response he
sought, his temper would kick in and  then the abuse would start all over again.
Except for her fear about Michael, she  felt empty, passive, and no longer cared
what happened to  her anymore. If she  must spend her life with  Tobias, she had
rather be  dead. It would  have been  merciful if he  had killed her  instead of
forcing her back to the prison his home would be for her.

What she would go through from now on would be worse than death—especially now
that she  had enjoyed  freedom and  happiness with  Michael. Tobias  destroyed a
little at a time by inflicting pain intermittently day by day. Gradual abuse was
his way of exercising control and eliciting obedience. His method was capable of
breaking  down her  psyche a  little at  a time,  until it  could bend  her will
quicker than even the  threat of death, and Tobias knew  that. Just knowing what
her coming days would  be like, if the previous years of  their marriage was any
indication, she didn't see how she could survive going through such hell again.

“I'm tired, Tobias. I'm very tired and would simply like to rest.”

She saw fire splinter  in his eyes, and she was sure he  would never have let it
drop so easily if Dave hadn't been present. His arm tightened about her, and she
had no choice but to lean against him and rest her head on his shoulder, all the
while, hating the  touch, the smell, and  the heat of him. She  closed her eyes,
pretending to  fall asleep even  though the sound of  the plane engine  kept her
awake.

Numbness spread over her like slow death.



MICHAEL WAS ADMITTED  TO the hospital, not  so much because of  the bullet wound
which turned out to be a clean  shot that went through his shoulder, but because
he had lost too much blood.

Mabel stuck with  him, even though it  was probably close to two  o'clock in the
morning when they  finally stopped the bleeding,  and put him in a  room. He was
spinning his wheels, every nerve in his body activated, and his tension was at a
peak.

“Mikey, you're worried about her, aren't you?” Mabel asked while he tried to
get comfortable on the  bed, using the hand control to raise  the head, to lower
the foot,  and then just  the opposite in  continual agitation. His  body wasn't
suffering  with discomfort.  It was  his brain.  He couldn't  stop thinking  how
Rochelle threw herself between the gun and him, how she had talked Tobias out of
killing him. He would very likely be dead  right now if not for her. Yet, he had
lain on the  floor like a helpless pup,  unable to help her when  Tobias led her
out the door.

“Mabel, she saved my life. That son of a bitch intended to kill me. She agreed
to go with him, to do anything he asked if he would just let me live. The man is
capable of anything. She  told me that he threatened to kill her  if she ran out
on him. For  all I know, he could mean  to carry out his threat. I've  got to do
something to help her, to get her away from him.”

“Come on, Mikey, that's a matter for the police. What do you think you can do?
You'll just go out there and get yourself really killed the next time.”





“Don't you  understand? She threw  herself between his  gun and me.  She would
have taken a  bullet for me. Do you think  I can ever forget that? I  have to do
something. I  just don't  know what. I've  never felt so  damned helpless  in my
life!” He slammed his fists into  the mattress, anger and frustration building
up in him to explosive force.

“I know she's a  decent human being, Mikey, but why did  you ever get involved
in a situation like  this? Did you know these things about  her husband when you
first got involved?”

“She told  me, even warned  me about spending time  with her, but  Mabel, I've
never met any woman I could love until I met her.

When  I think  of maybe  never seeing  her  again, it  wrenches my  guts out.  I
couldn't live with  myself if I didn't try  to do something to help  her. I want
her back. I want her in my life. God knows it hasn't been much of a life without
her.”

“She's a  lot like your  mother,” Mabel said  in deep thought.  “I noticed
that as soon as I met her.”

“Yeah, I guess  I did too. She is  gentle and kind like mom  was, and gracious
and poised. She's special, Mabel, and  there isn't another woman who can measure
up to her. As God is my witness, I will get her back some way or other providing
that son of a bitch doesn't kill her.”

“If he wanted to  kill her, he could have done it after  shooting you. I think
he wanted her back.”

“I'll kill the bastard if I ever get the chance,” Michael threatened.

Mabel frowned. “What you  need to do right now is get some  sleep and think on
this other  stuff tomorrow. Let me  get the nurse  to bring you a  sedative. You
cannot just  lie here all  night long pushing those  buttons to raise  and lower
your bed. You'll drive yourself crazy.”





“No, I don't want a sedative. I will feel too drugged tomorrow.

You  go  on home.  I've  taken  enough of  your  time.  And, Mabel,  thanks  for
everything.”

“What are friends for, Mikey? You have  certainly been one to me when I needed
you. Something puzzles me, though. Why was  Caroline there? What did she have to
do with this?”

Michael's face took on a look of pure hatred, his dark brows drawn together, his
lips curled into  a snarl. “If I live  to be a hundred years old  I will never
despise anyone as much as I do  Caroline. This entire event was her fault, every
bit of it. Chandler filed a Missing  Person's Report on Chelle and when Caroline
discovered it at  the police station, she  made it her business  to inform Miami
without the courtesy  of talking to Chelle  or me first. All of  this might have
been avoided if she had come to either  one of us and learned what the situation
really is. I hope to hell I never see her face again after what she did.”

“Jesus,  I knew  Caroline  had a  streak  of  vengeance in  her,  but I  never
thought  she would  go this  far.  She should  have gotten  an explanation  from
Rochelle—poor kid, she never had a chance.”

“If it's  not too much  trouble, I'd appreciate it  if you'll check  on Tillie
tomorrow. This must be tough on her. She  just gave up her apartment, and has no
place to stay.  I told her she could  stay with me, but I don't  think she's too
keen on that idea.”

“She  can  stay  with  me,”   Mabel  remarked  gleefully  despite  the  grim
atmosphere. “I probably can't pay her as  much as you and Sweetpea were paying
her, but I can make it worth her while.”

“Well, just don't forget that she still puts in her time at my house.”

“I'll keep that in  mind,” Mabel assured him. She kissed  his cheek and said
good night.





Michael watched  her leave. She was  no sooner out  the door than his  mind went
back to Rochelle. He recalled their lovemaking, how feverish and frenzied it had
been,  almost as  if the  both  of them  had  some inner  warning of  unforeseen
disaster. She told him she loved him, which was her first declaration of love to
him. That it  should come on the day  Tobias snatched her from his  life was too
much to deal with.

He knew  he needed  rest, needed  to get  well so he  could find  a way  to help
Rochelle. Nevertheless, his mind kept replaying  the memory of every second from
the time he had heard her scream.

Daybreak  was pouring  through the  hospital  window when  his haggard  thoughts
finally tired him to the point where he eventually fell asleep.



ROCHELLE HOVERED  IN THE FAR  corner of the  car as Dave  pulled up to  the tall
metal gates. The guard  sitting in the small cubicle pressed  the button to open
it. She felt like someone chauffeured to the cemetery for burial.

When they drove through the gate, and  she turned to watch it close behind them,
her heart  seemed to plunk to  the bottom of her  chest with a mixture  of pain,
dejection and  tears forming  deep within.  She refused  to cry,  swallowing the
moisture in her throat, and wishing she  were dead. An image of Michael provided
the only solace for  her troubled mind. Memories of him were  all she would have
in a house that would become her prison.

Tobias opened the front door for her after they exited the car.

He had to  give her a tiny push  to send her across the  threshold. Once inside,
she knew her life no longer belonged to her. During her stay in Windy Point, she
enjoyed freedom unlike  anything known with Tobias. Now, the  vacation was over,
and her prison sentence would commence.





Lights were  on all through  the house,  the spotlessly clean  interior gleaming
like a sterile shrine  all cold and empty of life. The house  seemed more like a
tomb than  a beautifully decorated mansion.  The deathly pall of  its atmosphere
greeted her with foreboding and despair.

She  stopped on  the foyer  and  looked about  while loneliness  kicked in  with
desolation and lost hope. She was standing  on the place where Tobias had ripped
off her  gown, had shoved  her to the cold  marble floor and  sadistically raped
her. She shuddered at the memory, still  shamed at knowing the guards had viewed
it all on the monitor screen.

Tobias's arm tightened about her, adding to her sense of dread.

She saw the long  days ahead filled with his abuse, and  topped with boredom and
loneliness. She could  not muster hope of ever gaining  another chance to escape
Tobias. He would  keep her under such a  close watch she wouldn't be  able to do
anything without  first getting permission  and then having someone  watch every
move she made.

Tobias escorted her straight to the  bedroom. “I've missed you baby. The whole
damn house has seemed empty without you.”

That was quite an admission; however, Rochelle  wanted to scream at him that she
did not want to be here, that she did not care how empty the house was. Instead,
she kept her silence. The look in Tobias's eyes presented a greater concern just
then.

Standing just  inside the bedroom door,  she felt total reluctance  to move, but
Tobias had other  plans. He put his arms  about her and pulled her  next to him.
His hands cupped her buttocks and pressed her against his erection.

Rochelle shuddered internally,  feeling suddenly chilled, the  hairs standing on
end on her arms. She knew what Tobias planned to do, and she could feel a scream
of refusal rise in  her throat. With Michael, her body had  never felt so whole,
so nourished, so clean and pure after their loving making. With Tobias, the very
thought of  him touching her sexually  sent a chill of  revulsion racing through
her. The sensation  was akin to having  a bucket of human  excrement poured over
one's head, thus, leaving the feeling of being dirty and tainted.

“Baby, I've  dreamed of  this moment since  the time you  left. I  know you're
tired from  the flight,  but I  need you.  Do daddy  a favor  and take  off your
clothes. I want to see you.”

Biting  back tears,  agony, and  repugnance, she  knew it  would do  no good  to
resist. To do so would only invite his anger and abuse.

He wouldn't think twice about ripping off her clothing. Like a zombie, realizing
she no longer had freedom of choice,  she did as bid. She cringed sickeningly as
his eyes perversely raked over her.

Her nakedness shamed her  before Tobias's greedy gaze, and it  took every bit of
strength she  could muster  to stand  in front  of him  without cowering  like a
wounded animal. To do so, would only  have invited his wrath, and believing that
survival could  still offer some future  with Michael, she stood  like a passive
statue before this man she despised.

He wrapped his arms about her, and  kissed her, his breath so rotten, she nearly
gagged. Instinctively she pulled away from him and turned her head aside.

“Baby, just  be nice  to me. That's  all I ask.”  His hands  were exploring,
touching her in places that still held the intimacy of Michael's touch. She felt
moisture threaten  behind her  lids, and gaining  unforeseen strength  from some
unknown source, she forced back the tears.

Almost gently, Tobias  pushed her down on  the bed, his mouth  and hands working
toward trying  to initiate desire and  some response from her.  His lips claimed
all the  privileges he  had taken  with her  when they  were first  married, but
regardless of  his attempts to  arouse her, all desire  had shut down.  She felt
entirely dead inside.

“Baby, you  may not  want me now,  but you  will. I promise  you that.  I will
change. You  will see.  I will  change and  it will be  good for  both of  us. I
promise.”

I had rather be  dead, she wanted to scream at him. She  knew, however, it would
have been  a mistake to anger  him. She must  keep peace between them  while she
planned and  nurtured the hope to  find a way  to return to Michael.  The meager
thought was the only spark of hope she had.

Tobias was staring deep into her green  eyes, his icy gray ones imploring her to
open to him, to  respond to him. “Come on baby, we'll  be good together again.
You'll see.”

Against everything she wanted, she nodded  her head. She thought of Michael, his
tender kisses, his  gentle touch, and his restraint until  she reached her peak.
Nothing in what Tobias did could ever excite  the woman in her. That part of her
would always belong  to Michael, even if  she never laid eyes on  him again, and
she feared that was a strong possibility.

Anger rose in Tobias's  face at her silence and indifference.  He was a vengeful
and hateful man. When  he didn't get his way, nothing made  him feel better than
administering pain and hurt of whatever quantities to gain acquiesce. Blood rose
to his face turning  it crimson. He nursed a strong desire to  slap the hell out
of her to force  her compliance. However, truly glad to have  her home again, he
controlled his abusive urges.

Trying to  keep his word  to make things different,  he pushed the  anger aside.
When he entered her with a full erection, it gave him a sense of power, a return
of control.  He believed Rochelle's absence  had weakened him, and  now that she
was back, nothing  was impossible to him. The flaccid  penis, that just recently
caused him delirious concern, now swelled  with a tumescence that gave him pride
and revived his sense of manhood.

Rochelle lay like  a dead thing beneath him, and  his psychological introversion
was so intense  he no longer seemed  to expect anything of her.  Like always, he
pumped with excruciating  force in and out of her,  causing great discomfort and
pain.

Fortunately, for  Rochelle, Tobias  wasn't a  man who could  go for  an extended
period before climaxing. His peak came shortly, to Rochelle's vast relief.

If Tobias  expected her  to reach  a climax,  he didn't  show surprise  when she
didn't.  The encounter  was  no different  from  all the  other  times he  found
completion with her. He was certain it  was the best climax he ever experienced.
He felt  a return of  full male  power, his relief  apparent over being  able to
perform again.  Having Rochelle  back revived  his self-confidence,  renewed his
faith in his virility.

Everything came  together, making  him more  appreciative of  what was  his. She
belonged to him, and she would never get another chance to leave him.

When Tobias  rolled off  her, Rochelle  lay there  like a  zombie with  her eyes
stretched open staring  up at an imaginary  spot on the ceiling,  much like what
she  would do  in a  doctor's office  during a  pelvic exam.  She felt  dead and
lifeless, her loneliness  for Michael so intense that the  world seemed empty of
any reason to go on living.

Tobias held her  in his arms as  if he were trying  to make up for  all the time
lost, and Rochelle  hated everything he represented, hated his  touch, hated his
sperm that seeped  from inside her, staining the sheets.  The gentle kind person
that was her  persona with Michael had  transformed overnight into a  shell of a
woman who seethed with bottled-up hate.

“Tell me about that man who was with you,” Tobias said, feeling her tense in
his arms.





Rochelle knew  his silence, thus far,  on Michael was  too good to be  true. She
knew the  subject would come  up eventually. She took  a deep breath.  “He was
remodeling the kitchen,” she stated simply.

She knew he didn't believe her. His hand glazed up and down her arm, his fingers
making  little  circles now  and  then  on her  nipples,  his  touches aimed  at
demonstrating his possession of her.

“Did he make love to you?” Tobias asked,  rising up on one elbow so he could
see her face better and read the expression in her eyes.

“No,” she lied.  “One doesn't necessarily choose to be  hurt when they can
avoid it.” The insinuation was there, aimed like a poison dart at Tobias.

Tobias reacted. “I don't mean to hurt you,” he said, knowing he lied. It was
his nature to hurt, to use pain as a power play to subdue.

It  was  all  part of  his  perverted  fantasies.  Hell,  he knew  it  was  sick
perversion, but he  didn't give a fuck one  way or the other, so long  as he got
his jollies. He learned early in life, that  if it feels good, then go ahead and
do it.

“Did you want to  do it with him?” Tobias asked shortly  She caught his eyes
and held them  in her unswerving gaze.  “Do you really think I  care about sex
after all the pain  you've caused me, Tobias? I think I  would have despised any
man who so much as made a pass at me. You need not worry. I'm just like you left
me, abused and embittered. That man was  doing exactly what I said he was doing.
He was remodeling the kitchen, putting in new cabinets.”

“What is his line of work?”

“What  do you  think, Tobias?  Who do  you suppose  remodels kitchens?  He's a
carpenter, a mere handyman.”

“And a handyman is below your haughty station in life, isn't he, baby?”





“Tobias, if you  were no longer a part  of my life, believe me,  I would never
want another man.”

She turned her back on him and silently prayed for sleep or death.





Chapter Thirty


Tobias stayed close  to home for the  next three days, to  Rochelle's dismay. He
acted like the happy husband on his honeymoon. He had sex with her so frequently
she  ached  with bruises  and  abrasive  soreness. By  the  third  day, she  was
miserable from his touch and from his  overly stimulated need. If he noticed her
discomfort, he didn't let on. His gentleness quickly fled soon after her arrival
home.

It just wasn't Tobias's nature to be  gentle. It would probably be only a matter
of time before his energies extended to  his women friends to humiliate her with
the stench of them on his person while he groped and abused her. She believed he
needed other women to authenticate his belief in his own sexuality. Whatever his
reasoning, she knew he was a perverted and immoral monster.

Rochelle was greatly relieved when Tobias  turned his attention to business once
again. Strange looking men in expensive  suits started coming to his study, much
as they did before she ran away.

She often wondered if they were all local,  or if they perhaps had flown in from
some  other state  or locale.  Regardless, it  was a  reprieve for  her, knowing
Tobias would be too busy to disturb her.

Late afternoon, they would get dressed and  go out for cocktails and dinner with
the old  gang she remembered  so well.  None of them  had changed. The  men were
still  like uncivilized  morons,  their  social habits  as  despicable as  ever.
Nevertheless, she  could almost stomach the  men more than she  could the women.
Each of  them quizzed  her about  her vacation, as  they chose  to refer  to her
running away. They  wanted to know how  she did it, how she  managed to survive,
what she did during the time she was gone.

“I lived like a normal person,” was all she ventured to say to them, drawing
their disdainful snorts and stares. No  doubt, they probably enjoyed a field day
talking about her while she was gone.

She was always glad  when those evenings were over and she  could return home to
the solitude she preferred to their company.

When she wasn't  outside on the lawns  or by the pool, her  and Tobias's bedroom
became her refuge,  a place where she read, watched  television, or lay thinking
of Michael. Finally,  one day while Tobias  was busy with the men  in his study,
she had a strong  need to get in touch with Michael.  Locking the bathroom door,
she sat on the toilet and wrote a letter  to him. She told him she was okay. She
told him  how much she  missed him. She  told him she  hoped he hadn't  been too
badly hurt by the bullet wound.

When she read  what she wrote, she tore  it up, flushed it down  the toilet, and
started all over again. What could she  say to someone she loved more than life,
but would  probably never  see again?  Most importantly,  how would  she prevent
Tobias from intercepting the letter? How would she mail it unobserved?

Tears seemed  to come easily  now when  she was alone.  Her anguish tore  at her
heart in waves,  and there were times  when the thought of taking  her life grew
increasingly stronger. Once she looked in  the bedside stand where Tobias always
kept a gun. It  was still there, and she thought he must  be completely crazy to
trust her  enough to leave  it there. She closed  the drawer, fearing  she might
actually find the nerve to turn the gun on herself. Yet, she did not really want
to die. She just didn't want to spend her life with Tobias.





Sitting on the toilet, she shook  her head despairingly after flushing her first
letter. She started writing again, determined to communicate with Michael at all
cost.

Dearest Michael,

Our time together was too brief, but  it was the most important and blessed time
of my  life. Your affection, your  gentleness, your every endeavor  on my behalf
fills my  thoughts each  minute and allows  me to believe  there might  still be
reason to go on wanting to live.

As I write  this, I am thoughtful  as to how I will  be able to mail  it. I also
have some dread of where I can hide it  to keep Tobias from finding it, or how I
will be able  to sneak it from  the house without detection. I  am determined to
find a  way, and if  Tobias allows me  freedom to shop again,  I know I  can get
Remy, the  manager of a  shop I frequented,  to mail it for  me. She was  a good
friend before, and I believe trustworthy.

Perhaps if  you wish to,  you might write  me and send  it to her  address. (She
jotted down  the address.) I  must close now, but  all my love  accompanies this
letter, and I pray you are healing from the bullet wound, and growing stronger.

Tears blurred  her eyes as she  signed her name.  Then putting the letter  in an
envelope and addressing it to Michael, she  tucked it in the pocket of her robe.
She began a thorough search of places to conceal the letter until such time when
she could go  shopping. She pinned it  beneath the lining of a  long winter coat
shoved to one end of her closet  in the dressing room and prayed Tobias wouldn't
search through her things. If he ever found it, she might possibly pay a penalty
with her life. Maybe that wouldn't be so bad.

When Tobias had threatened to kill her  if she ever tried running away from him,
she took  him literally. The  fact he  had not carried  out his threat,  did not
deceive Rochelle into  believing she was immune to him  following through if the
notion struck him. A moment of intense anger  is all it would take. She knew his
bent for deadly  violence. She was aware that three  guards had disappeared, and
no one ever found their bodies.  The second time, Tobias disappeared himself for
two days, and when he came back  he was highly agitated, nervous, and tense. The
papers carried a  story about a woman  who was murdered and found  on the beach.
Tobias followed the  story diligently every day until it  lost its reader appeal
and the newspapers  quit writing about it.  He was shaky and nervous  for a long
time  following the  release of  that story,  and everyone  around him  felt the
tension of his irascible behavior.

Rochelle believed he might have killed the woman himself.

All those things were coming back to her  now, and not least among them were the
deaths of  her parents.  There was  hardly any  doubt in  her mind  anymore that
Tobias had perpetrated their deaths.

The belief caused  so much hate for  him that she sometimes  dwelled upon taking
his gun and shooting him. Fear of her own inability to pull the trigger kept her
from attempting such an action.

Rochelle dressed to  go out, pinned the  letter beneath the skirt  of her dress,
and  then  pushed the  button  for  the in-house  phone  that  a security  guard
answered. “Tell Johnson  I'd like the car brought around,  please. I'd like to
go out.”

“Johnson no  longer works here,  Mrs. Chandler.  You have another  driver, Ted
Anderson.  A  bodyguard  will  also  accompany you  from  now  on.  The  bosses'
orders,” Dave stated.

“Where is  Johnson?” Rochelle asked, fear  surging up in her  throat for the
middle-aged man who always treated her respectfully.

“He left town soon after you disappeared.”

Dear God, Rochelle thought, Tobias probably had him killed.

She was silent  several moments, unable to  get the thought of  Johnson from her
thoughts. “Did he  really leave town?” she asked,  needing confirmation that
she hadn't been responsible  for the man's death. She was  aware of how Tobias's
associates disappeared upon their release from  jail after bail was set. Killing
or having someone killed  meant no more or less to him  than planning an evening
out on the town.

“He really  did leave  town, Mrs.  Chandler. Your  disappearance made  him too
afraid  to hang  around.” That  part  was at  least the  truth, Dave  thought,
careful not  to discuss such ugly  details as Johnson's death  with the delicate
young wife of his boss.

She breathed a sigh  of relief. “Thank you for telling me  that, Dave. I would
be very unhappy if I thought something had happened to him because of me.”

“I'll have the  car sent around, Mrs. Chandler,” Dave  replied, deeply sorry
that Johnson had  not been spared the  fate Tobias dealt him. The  man had never
bothered anyone, just did his job without complaint.

Dermot Gibson,  the bodyguard who  would accompany them, introduced  Rochelle to
Ted Anderson,  the new chauffeur.  Ted was a much  younger man than  Johnson had
been. In  his late  twenties, he  was tall,  muscular with  an angular  face and
features, and he wanted  to make a good impression on  his boss. After finishing
with the  exchange of  greetings, Rochelle  slid in the  back seat  while Dermot
Gibson  sat up  front with  Ted. Neither  of them  said anything  after Rochelle
stated where she wanted to go, until they arrived at The Boutique.

“I'll probably be here for about  an hour,” Rochelle said, thinking both men
would wait  in the car  for her.  However, when Gibson  opened the door  and she
stepped out, starting toward the shop, both  men fell in pace with her, dwarfing
her on either side.





She  stopped, and  glanced from  one to  the other.  “If you  don't mind,  I'm
capable of walking by myself.”

“Sorry, Mrs. Chandler, the  boss said to stay with you. You're  not to get out
of our sight,” Dermot Gibson said.

“I hope  that doesn't mean you  plan to come in  the dressing room with  me. I
think my husband's orders may not extend that far.”

Now, she felt  like a prisoner must  feel out on parole. Tobias  would make sure
she didn't run  again, and if she  did anything at all suspicious  he would know
about  it—maybe even  prevent  her from  shopping. Not  wanting  to lose  that
freedom, she would have to be extremely careful.

Gibson,  the spokesperson,  smiled.  “No, Ma'am,  we won't  be  obliged to  do
that.”

The three of them entered the shop.  Ted Anderson walked straight through to the
back door  and stood there  with his legs spread  and his arms  crossed, looking
totally out of  place. Gibson looked about  the shop to see who  was there, then
tried to  become less conspicuous  by backtracking out  the front door  where he
stood next  to it. He turned  in silhouette, so  he could cast glances  into the
shop through the plate glass.

Upon seeing Rochelle for the first time in more than four months, Remy exclaimed
delightedly and hurried toward her.

“Rochelle,  where  have  you  been?  I  was so  worried  when  I  heard  you'd
disappeared. Are you all right?” She  threw her arms about Rochelle's neck and
hugged her.

“I'm all right, Remy. I've been away for a while. Do you have any new things I
might like?”  she asked,  trying to think  of a way  to communicate  with Remy
without the hound at the back door overhearing.

“We just got in a new  shipment yesterday,” she replied, leading Rochelle to
a rack that hid them from Ted Anderson by a narrow partition.

Rochelle got Remy's attention and put her forefinger to her lips.

“Remy, this is your  shop. Make the man at the back door  wait outside. I need
to talk to you,” she whispered.

Remy nodded. Then in a raised voice, said, “Go ahead and look.

When you find  something, let me know.”  She headed toward the  back where the
chauffeur stood  in front of  the back door.  At first, she  pretended something
else was occupying  her attention as she  went through a rack  of clothing. When
she finished,  she turned about,  stopped, eyed the chauffeur  disdainfully, and
said, “Is there some reason why you've planted yourself at my back door?”

Ted's spread legs  came together, and he wavered only  slightly before replying.
“Yes, I'm Mrs. Chandler's bodyguard.”

“Well, I'm sure that with one of you  at the front of my store, you can surely
wait outside. I have  women customers who will not step a foot  in this place if
they see a man parked here.”

Remy pushed the back  door open. “You can wait outside here  at the back door,
or you  can join your  friend up front.”  Remy could sound  very authoritative
when she  wanted, and Rochelle  mentally applauded her performance  that brought
only mild resistance from the young chauffeur.

The man  wavered beneath her  gaze, thought about  the directions his  boss gave
him, saw the critical look in the  woman's eyes and realized he was trespassing.
If she wanted,  she could call the cops  and have him thrown out.  Not wanting a
problem, he opened the door and stepped outside in the alley.

Rochelle quickly took a couple of dresses  from the hanger, handed them to Remy,
and then went  toward the dressing room.  As soon as they  were inside, Rochelle
whispered quickly.  “Remy, I  need your  help. I have  to send  a letter  to a
friend, and I need you to mail it. He  will also be sending me mail here. If you
have objections, just say so, and I won't ask you again.”

“Of course I'll mail your letters, but I just don't understand.”

“You recall when  we used to have lunch  together and I told you how  I wish I
wasn't married?”

“Yes, I knew you were never happy with your husband.”

“I left  here, but  he forced  me to  come back.  He is  having me  watched so
closely I won't be able to get away  again, but I need to be able to communicate
with the friends I made while I was away.

Will you help me, Remy?” She spoke quickly in hushed tones.

“I helped you before when you disappeared  by not telling them that I knew you
had made several trips from my store through the back door. Considering there is
a bodyguard  on it now, your  husband must have  guessed what you did.  You know
I'll help you, Rochelle.”

“If I get a reply to this letter before I return here, call me at home and say
my dress has been altered and is ready to be picked up. Say nothing about any of
this when  you call. I'm  sure my phone is  monitored.” Rochelle gave  her the
phone number. Then she  took the letter from beneath her skirt  and handed it to
Remy who hid it beneath some dresses  she took from the dressing room. She added
it to her own outgoing mail.

Rochelle chose  an assortment of  items, a dress,  pants, blouses, a  skirt, and
some lingerie. When the items were packaged, Remy went to the back door and told
Ted Anderson Mrs. Chandler was ready to go. Remy loaded him down with Rochelle's
packages and watched  them leave, having heard enough  about Rochelle's marriage
over their lunches  to know how unhappy  she was. She also knew  Rochelle was no
less than a prisoner with two guard dogs watching her every move.





In the car, Rochelle leaned back  comfortably against the seat and sighed almost
contentedly. Knowing  she would be  able to  communicate with Michael  brought a
semblance  of peace.  The  deep loneliness  from her  separation  from him  felt
soothed by the knowledge he wasn't totally lost to her—not if he still lived.





Chapter Thirty-One


With his arm in a sling, Michael sat at  his desk in his office at the bank. All
morning  he  attempted  to  go  over some  paperwork  that  required  his  close
attention, but  Rochelle filled his  mind so completely,  he could not  think of
anything else. A million thoughts poured through his brain, and one that pounded
at him more than any other was Tobias kissing her that night. When he thought of
Tobias touching her, making love to her, it  ate at him with such acid fervor he
was sure he would lose his mind.

He had become irritable, sullen, and grouchy with everyone who spoke to him, and
he seemed no  nearer to overcoming the deplorable characteristics  that left his
bank employees afraid  to speak to him. He was  bad-tempered with everyone, even
Mabel who took every  opportunity to inquire if he had  heard from Rochelle. She
had stopped by earlier that same morning, and he guessed it was probably more to
check on him, than to inquire of Rochelle.

“Mikey, you're not doing yourself any good  letting it get to you this way. As
your friend, I must warn you to get hold of yourself.

The time  may come when Rochelle  will need your  help, and you can't  even help
yourself in your present frame of mind.”

“Mabel, do  I pay  you a salary  to bitch  at me every  chance you  get?” he
demanded sourly.





“No, Mikey, you don't  pay me a salary, but if you don't  stop being so bitchy
yourself, I'm going to  demand a salary for putting up  with you. Your employees
are praying you will take a long vacation and put Zimmerman in charge.”

Michael  kept perusing  some papers  on  his desk,  not really  seeing them.  He
listened and responded to everything Mabel  said, his mood as irascible as ever.
Finally, when she started lecturing him, he  threw up his hands and pounced from
his chair.

“What in the hell  do you think I can do? If the  cops won't do anything, then
how in the  hell can I? Mabel, if  I didn't have the experience of  that trial I
went through, I think I would consider killing the bastard. It is about the only
thing that  will stop  the son of  a bitch.  My hands are  tied, and  you're not
helping with your meddling,” he retorted in sheer frustration.

Mabel dropped her  hands in futile bewilderment  and turned to go.  At the door,
she turned  back to him. “If  that son of a  bitch can come here  and take her
from you, why can't you go and take her from him?” With a toss of her head and
a mild snort, she went out, not waiting for an answer.

Michael jerked  his head up and  observed her departure through  the doorway. He
was sorry for being  so sharp with her. Hell, he was sorry  for being sharp with
everybody. It seemed to be his normal disposition now.

Then it hit him what  Mabel had said . If that son of a  bitch can come here and
take her from  you, why can't you go  and take her from him. He  mulled over the
thought for several  minutes, his paperwork totally forgotten.  Why couldn't he?
Why in the hell couldn't he go take her back?

Without meaning  to, Mabel  planted a seed  that at first  shriveled and  died a
number of deaths, and  then took on life again with  nurtured fruition. The idea
took shape and form. Exasperatingly though, every plan running through Michael's
head had  weak links, and  he couldn't come up  with any adequate  strategy that
might suffice to insure his goal. The idea stayed with him though. Every time he
thought of Rochelle, which was mostly all the time, he meditated on ways to take
her back from Tobias Chandler.

“Come in!” he thundered impatiently when a light tap sounded on his door.

The door opened slightly. “Excuse me,  Mr. Matheson,” one of the bank clerks
said, sticking  her head inside the  door with meek hesitancy.  “I brought you
the morning mail.”

“Put it on my desk!” he bellowed, not  bothering to look up at the woman who
tiptoed into his office, laid the mail on his desk, and then tiptoed out.

Michael looked up as she was leaving,  and upon seeing her tiptoeing, pure irony
hit him with a wallop. It was almost laughable.

All the  people who  until recently, held  him in the  highest esteem,  were now
afraid  of  him.  Mabel was  right.  He  did  have  to do  something  about  his
disposition. When  people started  tiptoeing around  him, then  it was  time for
change.

Naturally, everyone  either knew, or  had heard  some version of  what happened.
Nothing was safe from the small town grapevine                                 .

While he expected  some negative responses from employees  and associates, their
attitudes were  sympathetic and  concerned. They deserved  better than  his sour
attitude that caused people to tiptoe around him and whisper as though afraid to
disturb him.

He grabbed up the stack of mail  and shuffled through it, glancing at the return
addresses as he usually did, opening the ones he deemed most important. Then his
eye struck on an address from Miami.

He dropped the packet of mail from  his hand except for that one letter, ripping
it open like a kid tearing into a present. Eagerly, he pulled the letter out and
unfolded  it, his  eyes  raking greedily  over the  contents.  When he  finished
reading, he  went back and  read it again,  finally reading the  first paragraph
several times until he memorized every word.

Our time together was too brief, but  it was the most important and blessed time
of my  life. Your affection, your  gentleness, your every endeavor  on my behalf
fills my  thoughts each  minute and allows  me to believe  there might  still be
reason to go on wanting to live.

The  words knifed  through him  with such  sharp regret  over his  loss that  he
swallowed spasmodically at the lump rising in his throat.

His fingers  caressed the  paper touched  by her hand,  her script  written with
delicate even strokes,  and he groaned inwardly at the  deep pain and loneliness
from losing her.

He had to do  something to get her back. He couldn't just  sit idly by and allow
Tobias Chandler  to destroy the  best thing that ever  happened to him.  He must
formulate a plan. As  Mabel had said, if Chandler could  come take Rochelle from
him, he  could take her  from Chandler. The  only problem, Chandler  hadn't been
dealing  with fortresses,  walls,  gates, and  guards with  the  likes of  which
fortified his  estate, as Rochelle  had told him  about. Michael needed  all the
information he could get about the place if he was to conceive a plan that would
work.

Immediately, he drew stationery from his desk and began penning a letter. It was
probably the most  poignant letter of his  entire life, but due to  the state of
depression Rochelle's  letter reflected,  he hoped  to say  something, anything,
that would  give her strength.  He first assured her  the bullet had  done small
damage and he would be as good as new  in a few weeks. Next, he told her what he
had wanted to  say numerous times when he  held her in his arms; he  told her he
loved her and would never rest easy again until he had her back beside him.

With that declaration, he carefully worded his following requests, hoping not to
alarm her. He inquired about the address where she was staying, about the estate
itself, if it was fenced, what sort  of security devices were in place, if there
were backup generators for electrical blackouts.  He inquired as to the location
of her bedroom in conjunction with the rest  of the house, and urged her to draw
a rough sketch of the layout of  the house and grounds, to indicate the location
of security devices, and areas posted by guards.

Then he asked  her to tell him  Tobias's routine, his schedule, if  he ever took
trips or was away for several days.

When he finished his  four-page letter, he reread it, deciding  there was no way
he could spare her concern and still  get the information he was requesting. The
letter  clearly  indicated  his  intentions.  She  would  recognize  his  intent
immediately even though  she wouldn't know when he planned  his coup. He stamped
the envelope, addressed  it in care of  Rochelle at The Boutique, and  put it in
the outgoing mail.



REMY'S  CALL  CAME TO  ROCHELLE  four  days  after  Michael mailed  the  letter.
“Rochelle, your  dress has  been altered and  we have in  some new  things you
might be interested in,” she said.

Rochelle thanked  her, and dressed  eagerly, her hopes  flaring like a  blaze of
light over the  prospect of hearing from  Michael. She pushed the  button on the
phone and  Gibson answered. “Let me  guess,” he said in  lighthearted humor,
“you need the car brought around.”

“Yes, but…” she was  going to ask how he knew, but  the thought took shape
immediately that  he had heard  her phone conversation  with Remy. They  had her
phone bugged.





Gibson realized his error, and quickly tried to cover his mistake.

“Mrs. Chandler,  I'm really not  psychic. It's the  only reason you  ever call
downstairs.”

“Yes,  of  course,”  she  replied,   letting  him  think  she  believed  the
explanation for his blunder.

She sat  in the back seat  of the car  with anxious anticipation for  the letter
from Michael. He's alive, she kept thinking. He's alive.

Being miles apart, the  letter would be almost as good as  having him in person.
Thinking  of the  letter  also  brought memories  of  Michael,  all their  times
together,  his touch  and the  excitement  he could  unravel in  her veins,  his
strength when he  held her in his arms  and pressed her to his  body. An intense
yearning grew inside her, not unlike a profound and aching hunger.

Understanding  her need  to be  discreet so  as not  to provoke  the bodyguard's
suspicions, Remy knew a little of what Rochelle wanted to do. She wanted privacy
to read  her letter,  and would  probably write a  return. She  watched Rochelle
choose several dresses  from a rack and  go into the dressing  room. Once there,
she  asked Remy  to clandestinely  bring her  a writing  pad and  envelope, then
suggested she  come in randomly  with other dresses and  carry out the  ones she
supposedly would try on.

The two hounds took  up the same positions  they took the last time  she came to
The Boutique.

Hurriedly, Rochelle tore  into Michael's letter, skimming over the  words with a
hunger to know  all he had written. Rochelle,  I love you and I  will never rest
easy until you are back beside me again.

Rochelle read  that part several  times. Then realizing  the need to  hurry, she
quickly read the rest of the letter,  spending a thoughtful couple of minutes on
Michael's request for information about Tobias's estate.





Just to make her lengthy stay in the dressing room look less suspicious, she put
on one of the  dresses, and went out into the shop to  look at things on another
rack. Gibson's head turned to look at her  from his position out in front of the
shop, and he was satisfied that all  was well. Rochelle took a couple of dresses
from the rack and went back to the dressing room to pen her reply to Michael.

My dearest Michael,

I am sending you the information you requested, but I must caution you. What you
are planning is  highly dangerous, and I  would rather never see  you again than
know your life is in jeopardy over trying to rescue me. I beg you not to attempt
this.

The five guards have guns and would  not hesitate to use them on any encroachers
discovered on the  property. One of them monitors the  televised security system
in a  security room  near the  kitchen in the  rear of  the house.  It comprises
numerous cameras that  televise every inch of the property  outside. The mounted
cameras are on all  sides of the house and at the  gated entrance, which usually
has a guard stationed there. While the cameras have back-up batteries and record
on  video  tape, the  security  monitor  can't televise  them  when  there is  a
blackout, except when the generator kicks on.

During an electrical  blackout, the generator automatically comes  on after five
minutes—the delay meant to offset power  surges. It is located toward the left
side of the house in the rear.

A six-foot wall surrounds the estate with spikes at the top. Four guard dogs are
on the property at night, and are capable of tearing a man to pieces. The master
bedroom where I sleep  faces the east with the only balcony on  that side of the
house.

Tobias  mostly handles  his  affairs here  at  home, and  often  meets with  his
associates in his study. To the best of my knowledge, he routinely schedules his
visits to  South America about every  other month, sometimes monthly.  I have no
idea just now  when his next trip will  be since I wasn't here the  last time he
went. I dare not  question him on such information lest he  get suspicious of my
interest and forbid me to leave the house.

Michael, please consider  the dire consequences of such an  attempt. I could not
live, would  not want  to live,  if something happened  to you.  I love  you and
though our lives may be separate from now  on, I will always hold you dear in my
heart.

She signed  her name, and  quickly sketched  out a floor  plan of the  house and
grounds  on a  separate sheet  of paper.  Remy came  in with  another armful  of
clothing, sweeping  back out  again with the  ones she had  brought in  the last
time. Rochelle quickly read what she had written.

Folding the pages, she stuffed the  letter in the envelope, addressed and sealed
it, giving it to Remy the next time she came in.

She tried on another dress and came out  into the store to model it for Remy and
the other clerk. As she expected,  Gibson's eyes swept over her, watching longer
than necessary as she spun about, letting the skirt of her dress swirl about her
silky thighs.

Gibson quickly  looked away  as her  green eyes  caught his.  He dared  not risk
familiarity with her that might spur her to speak to Chandler about him, knowing
as he did that the man was  obsessed with his wife. He needed little provocation
to take dire measures against any employee's unnecessary interest in her.

Remy boxed  up Rochelle's purchases while  Rochelle used the bathroom  to reread
Michael's letter. Finished, she tore it  into dozens of tiny pieces, touched the
last piece gingerly to her lips, and  flushed it all down the toilet. Loneliness
echoed  throughout her  body as  she watched  the torn  bits disappear  down the
toilet bowl, the flushing water gurgling noisily.





When she was ready to go, Remy opened  the back door and let Anderson inside. He
immediately asked if he could use her restroom.

A resounding alarm went off in Rochelle's head. Had all the pieces flushed down?
She cringed at the idea she had considered in the bathroom, debating over hiding
the letter  beneath the sink with  tape so she  could read it again.  Her better
judgment had won out against it. Now, she breathed with relief that she sent the
letter to  the sewer. Otherwise,  it could  have meant no  further communication
with Michael,  and she would most  likely have been restricted  from leaving the
house at all—or worse.



MICHAEL  RECEIVED ROCHELLE'S  LETTER, read  it  carefully many  times, his  mind
absorbing  the knowledge  while he  gave considerable  thought to  various other
information he was considering. He would need someone who knew security systems,
would need  an electrician,  a trucker, then  two others who  would back  up his
endeavors. He  made a list of  names of people  he knew and their  abilities. He
calculated  the  time  needed,  the  cost,  and  mentally  toyed  with  numerous
strategies. As the plan took shape and form inside his head, his final goal took
on dimension.

Rochelle would be his again.





Chapter Thirty-Two


The following  week, Remy called Rochelle  to tell her  she had gotten in  a new
shipment of clothing she might find interesting.  For the sake of those whom she
knew were listening  in on the phone conversation, Rochelle  joked about all the
clothes she  already had and no  place to wear them.  “However, since shopping
has become  my only pastime, I  suppose I must  come see what you  have. Perhaps
tomorrow or  the next  day I'll  stop by  when I  go to  the drugstore  for some
personal items.”

Rochelle's heart thumped erratically every time Remy called.

Happiness surged through her like a rush  of energy, and she purposely fought to
hide her excitement. Even with a mere  letter, Michael had the power to send her
into a buoyancy of spirit marred only by extreme longing for him. She craved his
lips, his  hands as  they wove  their magic,  and she  craved him,  his physical
presence in her life.

“Come whenever you like,  but you know they'll be picked over  if you wait too
long,” Remy replied,  understanding the word game Rochelle played  to keep the
listeners from becoming suspicious of her frequent trips to the shop.

The next day when  she visited Remy's shop, just as she had  done the last time,
she read Michael's  letter, which began with gentle devotion.  Honey, I miss you
more every day, and  long to have you with me again. She  held the letter to her
breast  several moments  before  reminding herself  she had  to  write a  reply.
Michael wrote a number of questions requiring answers, and in the dressing room,
she wrote hurriedly, trying to be as thorough as possible. She declared her love
for him, and how  she missed him, and after sealing her  letter in the envelope,
handed it to Remy when she came to the dressing room again.



ROCHELLE'S  NEXT STOP  was  to the  drugstore. She  purposely  asked Tobias  for
spending money to use at the drugstore  for smaller items she didn't want to use
the charge card for, and he peeled  off a fifty-dollar bill. He was unwilling to
give her more for fear  she might try to use it to get  away again. When her two
bodyguards followed her around like a  puppy dog, bruising her delicate ego with
prying eyes  as she  gathered personal  items she needed,  she felt  impelled to
object.

“Dermot, I don't think my husband intended for the two of you to dog me to the
point of making me nervous. Now please give me a little space.”

The two  large men looked just  slightly ill at  ease, and moved away  from her.
They  busied themselves  at  the magazine  racks, pretending  to  read, when  in
reality, they were watching Rochelle's every move. She could just imagine Tobias
telling them not to  take their eyes off her, and they  knew better than disobey
him.

Rochelle  put her  purchases in  a  tote basket,  and thought  about the  letter
Michael sent her, now flushed down the toilet.

By now, you know  what my intentions are and what I am  planning. As soon as you
know when Tobias will  be going out of the country, I need  to know. Please have
your friend at  the shop give me a call.  I will not be able to  forewarn you of
the time, so be prepared to move  quickly. Bring nothing with you, just what you
will be wearing.

Rochelle, I realize the danger in this, and if there were an easier way, I would
opt for it. Unfortunately, there is no easier way.

She  had given  Remy  Michael's phone  number, and  worked  out a  communication
technique whereby she could inform Remy when Tobias left the country again. Remy
would call Michael,  and then Michael would begin putting  his plan into action.
She could feel the excitement bubbling in  her veins, fear of what lay ahead, as
well as anxiousness over the prospect of seeing Michael once again.



MICHAEL TURNED  THE BANK over  to Ronald  Zimmerman until further  notice. Using
the  information Rochelle  gave  him, he  spent long  hours  drawing out  plans,
procedures, techniques, keeping some, discarding others. When he was certain all
his plans were in place, he proceeded to hire the five men who would help him.

Curly and  Joe, the  two giant-sized  truckers, who  had stepped  in the  day of
Michael and  Wayne's confrontation,  agreed readily to  help after  receiving an
offer of Five Thousand Dollars each. Michael informed them that the generous sum
was because  of the danger involved.  Wallace Udell, who installed  the security
system in Michael's home as well as  in his father's house, also joined the team
for  the generous  offer that  would help  catch up  on unpaid  bills. The  risk
Michael outlined was also worth it to Leland Maxwell, an electrician.

The last man was not as easy to come by as the others were.

Since they  would not be  able to use  weapons, he needed  a man who  could take
someone  out quickly  if the  need arose,  someone who  could back  him up  in a
confrontation. After querying the four men, Udell said he knew such a person who
lived in Bozeman who would fill the requirements.

Ramm Prescott was  a black-belt martial arts instructor who  frowned and said no
when Udell approached him of the job offer.

When  Udell explained  the Five  Thousand Dollar  payment for  a job  that would
require going  to Miami  and putting  in about an  hour's effort,  Ramm mentally
calculated  how much  he  needed to  keep  his dying  Karate  school afloat.  He
accepted.

With his selection  of men completed, Michael called them  together over several
evenings at his home and went over every  detail of his plan. Each man was given
a special  task to  perform, and  would be  responsible themselves  for whatever
tools  they  would need.  Michael  discussed  every  minute detail,  along  with
possible problems and with back-up measures if something should go wrong.





He developed  his carefully charted  plans on a time  scale, right down  to mere
seconds.

“It's important that we synchronize our efforts. We have to know what everyone
else is  doing at any  given time.  There will only  be five minutes  before the
generators kick on after we shut the electricity down. Wallace, it will be up to
you to knock out the generators within that five-minute period. The cameras have
battery  backups, and  I would  like  them knocked  out since  they carry  video
footage; however, my main concern is putting the generators out of commission in
order  to black  out  the security  monitors.  That will  keep  the guards  from
tracking our movements.

“Curly, I'm  counting on  the diversion you'll  make at the  gate to  draw the
guards. We  have to  prepare for  any guards  inside the  house, as  well. Ramm,
that's where  you'll come in  to back me  up, in the  event I'm confronted  by a
guard,” Michael explained.

“Won't we  need a  van that  looks like it's  from the  electrical company?”
Leland Maxwell asked.

“I thought about that, but since the hour will be late at night, I think we're
safe with  any kind of  vehicle heavy enough to  total the iron-gate  out front.
Leland is only going to be on the pole long enough to knock out the power to the
house. We can  pick up a used  vehicle; possibly find something for  sale in the
newspaper and pay cash for it without leaving a paper trail.”

“What about the dogs?” Curly asked.

“That's Joe's  job. He'll  set the  lead by  ten minutes,  throw in  about ten
pounds of meat that's been injected with  a sedative the vet says will have them
sleeping until noon the  next day. Let's just hope they  haven't been overfed so
much that they're not hungry.”

“Suppose they don't eat it, what then?”

Michael reached to a table near him and  drew a gun forward. He handed it to the
men who looked at it and passed it around.





“It's a dart gun. I have seen it  used on television to put down wild animals.
But where do you get the darts or the stuff that's needed?” Joe asked        .

“A banker makes lots of friends,” Michael smiled. “But this wasn't easy to
come by, and I do have to return it, so let's not leave it behind.”

He  reached back  to  the table  again  and brought  out  more hand-held  items.
“These will put  a man down immediately  if you can get close  enough to touch
him with it. I call them zappers, but I believe most people call them stun guns.
They carry enough of  an electrical charge to put a huge  man out of commission.
Each of you will  carry one of these. However, keep in mind  the men you will be
encountering will  have weapons and they  will use them without  hesitation. You
may never get close enough to use these.  I also have pepper spray, but again it
is useless unless you are close to your foe.

Our greatest strength will lie in avoiding detection. Hopefully, Curly will give
enough diversion at the gate to keep the guards preoccupied.”

Leland Maxwell spoke up.  “My job is to knock out the  electricity at the same
time that Curly implements his diversion?”

“Right, and you and Curly must co-ordinate your efforts simultaneously. It has
to look like the  accident knocked out the power, and it will  take them a while
to realize that is not the case.

Fellows, do all of you know what you have to do?” Michael asked.

He passed his gaze over each of them, and they nodded in turn.

“I'm waiting for a  phone call, and I have no idea when  it will come. When it
does, we have to be prepared to leave immediately.

We'll be flown there in a private plane, but coming back, we'll be driving.”

“Why? Couldn't we get out faster on a plane?” asked Udell





“When they discover Rochelle missing, the airport will be the first place they
look and I don't trust the police there. Fellows, I must remind you that this is
extremely dangerous. If any of you want out, say so now.”

No one said anything for a minute, and then Joe spoke up.

“Mike, I'm  with you.”  He was  remembering how Michael  had loaned  him the
money  for his  rig  after he  had  decided  he could  make  more money  working
independently than driving for a truck broker.

His  credit report  had been  disgustingly  sad, but  Mike believed  in him  and
trusted him.

“Yeah, me too,”  agreed Curly who had  also received his share  of help from
Michael when his wife needed some serious  surgery for which he had no insurance
to cover it.

The other  three fellows nodded their  acceptance. The promise of  Five Thousand
Dollars for a couple of days work was too enticing to turn down.



TOBIAS SPENT  A LONG  TIME on  the phone  one evening  nearly eight  weeks after
Rochelle's return  home. They sat  together in  the family room  downstairs, and
Rochelle watched  television while Tobias took  his call. She heard  snatches of
his conversation, which  sounded defensive. Whatever the other  party was saying
to him  did not set well  with Tobias. He  was argumentative, and every  word he
said carried strong defenses. Then he said what Rochelle had been hoping to hear
for the past several weeks.

“I'll be out of here on the first available plane,” he said, and slammed the
receiver down  on the phone  cradle. He continued  staring at the  phone several
minutes, his mind deep in thought.

Rochelle glanced toward him and watched while  he lifted his fist and slammed it
on the table with a crash, sending  an ashtray smashing to the floor. She jumped
automatically, the  old fears  waking with  the speed  of lightning  at Tobias's
display of anger that edged his face with worry lines about his eyes and mouth.

Something wasn't going well  for him, but Rochelle had no  idea what the problem
was, except, the source of the call came from someone down in Colombia. From the
snatches of conversation she heard, she gathered that someone wasn't too pleased
with Tobias.

“The fucking sons of bitches!” he  swore loudly, reacting in an anxious rage
to the message just received.

He picked up the phone and dialed a number. “Frank, what the hell is going on?
You said everything was in the bag.  Why is Judge Salvador not handling Monroe's
case?”

Tobias listened, shaking his  head. “Who in the hell told him  he could take a
vacation now? Get  that son of a bitch  back here and tell him  to do something.
Contact the attorneys and  tell them to find some way to  slow things down until
Salvador gets back. If something goes wrong  with this, we all go down together.
Frank, don't let me down, man. I am counting on you to handle this. We're in one
hell of a mess.”

Tobias's fears were closer to home now  instead of down in Columbia. Sanchez was
madder than hell over the loose  structure his Miami organization had fallen to,
but the state attorney's office was Tobias's biggest concern just now.

Berne Lindberg,  State Attorney, had been  trying to put Tobias  away for years.
Busting Monroe Tatum and getting the judge to deny bail, was the ideal situation
Lindberg had kept waiting  for a long time. If Monroe suspected  he was going to
do time, he would be compelled, and completely willing, to turn state's evidence
against Tobias for  a deal. If he  turned on Tobias, he would  name others; thus
causing the police to issue arrest warrants, and arrest everyone named. In turn,
Lindberg would be obliged to offer them  a deal to turn state's evidence against
Tobias; thus, he would  gain the evidence he needed to  bury Tobias Chandler. It
was a chance in a lifetime to wrap up the whole drug network in his city. Tobias
had been using  the justice department at his disposal  and flaunting the courts
for years. Lindberg wanted Tobias. All the others meant nothing to him.

Tobias listened to what Frank was saying, and then hung up the phone.

Rochelle pretended to be preoccupied with  the television program, but she could
tell Tobias  was extremely worried about  something. We'll go down  together, he
had said,  and she wondered  at his statement. Was  the drug cartel  in Columbia
unhappy with him, or did he mean the  police were on to him? Either way, it gave
her a  surge of adrenaline to  know that he was  experiencing just a dab  of the
fear he  had inflicted  upon her  over the  past years.  Nothing would  make her
happier than to see him arrested on charges for whatever it was that he might be
guilty of perpetrating. Perhaps  there was light at the end  of the tunnel after
all.

When the television program ended, she went upstairs. Tobias came up much later,
showered and lay down beside her. She expected him to reach out for her as usual
for his nightly  sexual activity. Instead, he  lay still on his back  for a long
time, eventually  tossing and  turning restlessly. She  knew he  was preoccupied
with whatever was on his mind after the telephone conversation.

Rochelle went  to sleep,  blessed with  relief that Tobias  was too  absorbed to
bother with her.



THE COMING MORNING, IRRITABLE and sullen, Tobias packed a bag. “You are not to
leave the house while  I'm gone,” he ordered, the worry  lines on his forehead
having grown deeper since last night.





He had  lost weight  over the  past few weeks,  having to  tighten his  belt. He
hadn't minded so much losing weight  since his paunch needed some reduction, but
it bothered  him that  the worry lines  in his face  had aged  him considerably.
Wanting to hide  some of the new wrinkles  that seemed to spring up  in his face
overnight, he stopped shaving and started growing  a beard, it as black as night
with traces of gray. Rochelle not  only hated its sandpaper abrasiveness against
her  face and  body, but  she hated  the  way Tobias  looked. It  made him  look
diabolical, frightening, and more dangerous than previously.

“Tobias, what will I do here twenty-four hours a day? Surely, you don't expect
me to sit here all that time and do nothing.”

“I do expect it, and I damn well will have you locked in your room if you even
look like you're going to disobey me.  There'll be no more running away like you
did before.”

“What if I need something from the store?”

“Then  you send  one of  the boys.  I  am warning  you, Rochelle,  I will  not
tolerate any more of your foolishness. If  you ever attempt to do something like
you did before, I will not be so forgiving. I'll bury you if I have to.”

“How long will you be gone?”

“I'll be gone five  or six days, maybe seven at the most.  A jet is being sent
for me,” he  added, his suitcase in  his hand. At the bedroom  door, he turned
and  looked at  her several  moments,  a hard  frown further  marring his  rough
features just before he walked out.

After he had sufficient time to leave the house, Rochelle looked out the window,
watching the limo roll  down the drive. She wanted to call  Remy, but decided to
wait  lest the  guards  be suspicious  at  her calling  so  soon after  Tobias's
departure.

Downstairs, while  the cook served her  breakfast, she scanned the  pages of the
newspaper, looking for someone named Monroe  who was on trial for… whatever it
was.  In the  local section,  she found  it. The  charges against  him were  for
smuggling drugs  into the country. There  wasn't much written, and  no reference
was made to Tobias directly.

Sources say Monroe Tatum is tied to the Columbia drug cartel in conjunction with
several prominent residents  in Miami. The mayor's office has  issued an all out
crackdown on drug trafficking between the two factions, and the state attorney's
office is  proceeding with an  extensive investigation into  allegations against
possible suspects attached to the drug trade.

Rochelle read the article, and then read  it again. She recalled what Tobias had
said on the  phone. If Monroe goes down,  we go down with him.  He had indicated
concern over Judge  Salvador being away on vacation, the  judge obviously one of
Tobias's reliable  sources within the  justice system. She gathered  that Tobias
must have been paying bribes to Judge Salvador and others to prevent prosecution
of associates.

If Tobias failed to  do his job, then the organization would  have too many weak
links that could curtail the smooth functioning of their operation. The meetings
Tobias conducted with men  who came to his study suggested  he likely headed the
entire  Miami  drug operation  for  the  cartel. If  Tobias  fell  short in  his
responsibilities,  it could  wipe  out their  entire  Miami network.  Everything
Rochelle had learned about Tobias confirmed everything her parents had told her,
or at least tried to.

Rochelle was thinking of calling Remy when the phone rang around eleven o'clock.
Remy informed her she  had in a new shipment with some  adorable dresses for the
changing season.

“I can't come  down, Remy,” Rochelle said unhappily. “Tobias  has left the
country for five or six days and he doesn't want me to go out while he's gone. I
will see you when he returns. Maybe you won't sell everything by then.”

“I'll choose a couple of things I think you'll like and save them,”

Remy said, hanging up the phone. Immediately, she picked it up again, and dialed
Michael's number.

“Mr. Matheson, Mrs. Chandler  asked that I inform you her  husband will be out
of the country for five or six days.”

“Thank you, Remy.”

Michael immediately called his men together to implement their plans.





Chapter Thirty-Three


Each night after her shower, Rochelle put on slacks and shirt and slept in them.
She kept  comfortable sneakers  handy to complete  her ensemble.  Michael's last
letter indicated she was not to take anything with her except what she wore, and
she wanted to be ready on a minute's notice.

It was hard to fall asleep now, knowing  she might be seeing Michael in a matter
of hours.  The fact  they would all  be in  danger of the  guards who  would not
hesitate to  fire their  weapons at intruders  left Rochelle  extremely worried.
However, she must trust Michael to know what he was doing, and the fact that his
intrusion  would come  as a  surprise might  very well  ensure their  safety and
success.

Tobias did  not permit the guards  upstairs, except when he  summoned one, which
was rarely, but she knew they would not  hesitate to come up and check on her if
they suspected foul play.

Therefore, nightly  she locked her  door, and propped  a chair back  beneath the
doorknob, sure Michael would come from the outside onto the bedroom balcony.

Lately, she had spent  a good deal of time on the balcony,  looking out over the
wide stretch  of green lawn where  the dogs, released around  five each evening,
ran about playfully,  barking at the least noise or  movement. They were vicious
animals as  Rochelle had  witnessed when  the trainer  worked with  them, seeing
their sharp  fangs tearing  into the padded  sleeves on his  arms and  legs. She
thought about Michael and  the damage the dogs were capable  of doing, hoping he
would wear pads like those the trainer wore.

She knew she was making a nervous  wreck out of herself trying to anticipate all
that would be happening.  She even tried to formulate her own  plan in the event
something went wrong.

Checking the nightstand on  Tobias's side of the bed, she found  the gun he kept
there,  checked it  for ammunition,  which  she learned  how to  do by  watching
Tobias, and slipped it  in her purse. If she had to use  it to save Michael, she
would. That would probably be the only  reason that would prompt her to fire the
gun.



THE THIRD  NIGHT FOLLOWING Tobias's departure,  at exactly three o'clock  in the
morning, Joe threw a  large bag of raw beef over the  fence. Scenting the smell,
the dogs came awake with growls and snarls, their eyes keening anxiously as they
rose up on their haunches, barking and  running in the direction of some unknown
source.

“Damn!” Joe  cursed. He was  hoping to draw  the dogs without  them barking.
They would wake every guard on the  place. Wearing dark clothing, like the other
men, with a ski hood over his head, he  scaled the wall so he could watch as the
dogs came  hurdling toward where the  meat lay upon  the ground. As soon  as the
scent touched their nostrils, they stopped  barking, sniffed about the meat, and
then  with grunts  and  snarls, began  tearing  into it.  Michael  had said  the
sedative was fast acting, but just in  case, they all kept their pepper spray in
readiness.

Joe scanned  the area  of lawn  inside the brick  wall, and  breathed a  sigh of
relief when he didn't see guards running out to investigate.

They obviously  were not sensitive  to the dogs  barking, or else,  believed the
dogs were vicious enough to patrol the grounds independently.

Exactly ten  minutes later when the  dogs began wobbling on  weak legs, falling,
then struggling up only to fall again,  Leland Maxwell was already at the top of
the power pole, looking at his watch,  ready to synchronize his efforts with the
distraction Curly would initiate.

Leland saw  Curly come roaring  down the street in  a large utility  van weaving
dangerously, taking a sharp right that brought  it crashing into the gate with a
noise that sounded like an explosion. At  the same moment, all the lights on the
estate suddenly went dark, giving Michael,  Ramm Prescott, and Wallace Udell the
blackout they needed. They scaled the wall in meager seconds and hastened across
the lawn, keeping to the shadows of trees and shrubs.

Wallace Udell sabotaged the generator in just a few seconds after he reached it,
and headed back toward the wall where  he would be in readiness when Michael and
Ramm returned  with Rochelle. He  could hear the  high-pitched voices of  men as
they ran toward  the gate, and in  the darkness, he could see  the light colored
shirts  of  three. That  meant  there  was still  at  least  one or  two  inside
somewhere.

“Where are the damn dogs?” One of the guards asked, looking all about.

“Something's wrong,” another stated in  alarm, suddenly reaching the gate to
find  it lying  upon  the  driveway, and  the  front end  of  a  van smashed  to
smithereens, with no sign of a driver. The  gate guard was flat on his back, his
face looking pulverized like hamburger, but he was alive.

“Stay here,  Anderson. Gibson you  take the left  and I'll take  the right,”
said Dave, running along the edge of the six-foot brick wall with his gun in his
hand. Then tripping on the dogs, he  stumbled and fell, and Joe stepped from the
shadows and sent a deafening blow to the back of his head. Joe retrieved the gun
slung from the guard's hand, it lying like black ink in the pale moonlight.

Curly and Leland were  already in one of the two cars that  sat along the street
in the  shadow of  a huge  old tree  while Joe  waited in  the shadow  where the
sleeping dogs lay beside the unconscious man.



ROCHELLE WOKE FROM a  light sleep to what sounded like a  heavy clap of thunder.
Listening carefully  while her senses remained  dulled by the dredges  of sleep,
she closed her eyes again when she heard nothing more. She dozed peacefully when
a gloved hand closed  over her mouth, and her eyes flew open,  but she could see
absolutely nothing because wherever she looked there was complete darkness. Only
on the balcony was there any trace of light, the soft glow of the moon spreading
a silvery  cast. She  saw a shadow  and the gloved  hand smothered  the startled
scream rising in her throat.

“Rochelle, it's me, Michael.  Do not scream. I am going to  remove my hand. We
have to move quickly.”

At that  same instant,  heavy pounding sounded  on her door,  and a  tiny squeak
indicated someone trying to turn the doorknob. “Mrs.

Chandler, open the door. Open the door.”

“Don't answer,” Michael told her, and pulled her off the bed.

She slid  her feet into her  sneakers and grabbed her  purse at the same  time a
heavy  thud struck  the bedroom  door.  The chair  she  put there  kept it  from
opening, and the thud  sounded again. This time a spray  of splintered wood flew
inward and the chair disintegrated.

The shadow Rochelle had seen on the balcony seemed to float with easy grace into
the room on  stealthy feet. Her eyes  were more accustomed to  the darkness now,
and she  could see the  shadow standing with  his back to  the wall next  to the
door. Another  kick sent the  damaged door slamming  back against the  wall, and
when the guard stepped inside the room with his gun extended in front of him, he
never knew what hit him.

Ramm, the shadow  Rochelle had seen, knocked  the gun from the  guard's hand. He
sidestepped the man's beefy fist, and then put  him down in one fast move with a
hard, fast kick that knocked him unconsciousness.

The noise made by  the guard kicking in the bedroom  door brought another guard,
the light  from his  flashlight bouncing up  the stairs as  he came  in pursuit.
“Troy, what's  going on?”  he shouted  as his feet  pounded on  the upstairs
landing  and he  sprinted the  distance  to Rochelle's  bedroom. His  flashlight
waltzed horizontally back  and forth across the space in  front of him, bouncing
off the hallway walls.

When Troy failed to answer, his  steps became slower, more hesitant and careful,
stepping across the threshold with caution.

Upon aiming his flashlight into Rochelle's room,  the first thing he saw was the
sprawled figure  of Troy  on the  floor. Before he  could move  the beam  of his
flashlight anywhere else in the room, a harsh  chop on the back of his neck sent
him down on all fours. He crumpled flat  on his face and stomach on the carpeted
floor next to Troy.

By the  time Ramm  joined them,  Michael had already  lowered Rochelle  over the
balcony  by a  rope tied  around her,  and was  going down  a second  rope. Ramm
shimmied down  the rope right  behind him,  following in Michael  and Rochelle's
wake as they sprinted around the house  toward the wall where Joe and the others
waited.

The sound of gunfire  rang out, and the whiz of a bullet  spun by Michael's ear,
so close that another inch would have  found the bullet buried inside his skull.
Another hissed  somewhere nearby, and  they had to  make an instant  decision to
either go straight for the wall, or fall back in the shadows.

Ramm made the decision. “Michael, keep to the darkness beneath the trees. I'll
try to cut  back around through the shade  of the shrubs and trees  and draw his
attention while the two of you make it over the fence.

The sound of another gunshot exploded in their ears, much closer than the last.

Michael pulled Rochelle behind a tree trunk while Ramm ran toward the house in a
weaving pattern, the moon just light  enough to cast his black-clothed figure in
a dark shadow against the pale light.

More gunfire burst out in sharp repeated  explosions, and as soon as Michael saw
the guard running in the same direction Ramm took, he pulled Rochelle into a run
toward the wall.

Joe stooped on  the top of the wall  now, ready to help. He grabbed  hold of the
rope wrapped around  Rochelle's waist after Michael  threw it up to  him. He put
pulled her  up, and then lowered  her to the  other side where Curly  caught her
before her feet  touched the ground. Michael was close  behind, scaling the wall
as soon as  Joe tossed the rope  back to him. He  was on the other  side in less
than thirty seconds, encircling Rochelle with his arm.

“Go, go!”  Curly called  in whispered  shouts as  he motioned  Joe, Michael,
Rochelle and Leland toward the lead car. “Me and Udell will wait for Ramm.”

At that moment, Ramm hid in the shadows  behind a tall bush around the corner of
the house.  As the guard  came tearing around the  corner, Ramm was  waiting for
him,  and before  the  guard could  get  off  the shot  his  finger was  already
squeezing the trigger to discharge, Ramm disarmed  him as his leg swung out, his
foot slamming with  enough force against the gun-hand to  break the man's wrist.
Following with a  fast punch to his  middle, the man bent  double. Ramm followed
with a chop upon his neck and shoulder, and the guard went down without a fight.

Ramm wasted no time getting to the wall. He shimmied up the rope, and scaled the
wall in  brief seconds,  sprinting to  the waiting car  that was  already moving
before he jumped inside He closed the door behind him.

“Whew!” he  said in a puff  of breath. “Those bullets  came awfully close.
Did Michael and Rochelle make it okay?”

“They're at  least three blocks  ahead of us,”  Curly stated with  a pleased
grin  on his  face. Slapping  each of  their hands,  he said,  “We did  great,
fellows. We did it!”

Up ahead in the lead car, Leland Maxwell, the electrician, squirmed in his seat,
turning toward  Joe who was  driving. “I'm glad  that's over with.  Those damn
bullets nearly gave me a heart attack.”

“It was like taking candy from a baby,” Joe laughed, experiencing a surge of
adrenaline he hadn't  felt since he was  a young man involved  in Saturday night
barroom brawls  that kept him  and his  friends preoccupied against  boredom. He
glanced at his busted fist and laughed some more. “That damn guard at the gate
won't be breathing out of his nose for a long time. I haven't had so much fun in
ages.”

“We're not  out of it yet,”  Michael told them. “They'll  probably put the
cops on us. Watch your speed and watch out for police cars.

Curly will stay far enough behind so we won't be suspected of traveling together
in the event one of us is stopped.”





Neither Rochelle nor Michael had spoken to  each other. She sat on the seat next
to him  trying to  control her violent  shaking as though  she were  freezing to
death. Michael put his arm about her and  pulled her next to him. “Are you all
right?” he asked softly, feeling her trembling against him.

“Yes, but  I'm afraid this  car will  need a wheel  alignment if I  don't stop
shaking.”

That remark  brought chuckles  from all  around, and  Michael kissed  her cheek,
catching the soft scent of lavender he recalled so well. He breathed deeply, and
gave her a warm hug. He had just pulled off what Rochelle had feared might be an
impossible feat.

Yet, sitting  next to  Michael was  proof of their  success. Tobias  wouldn't be
pleased with  his guards, she  decided, and wished  she could see  Tobias's face
when the guards informed him of what happened.

Their car  moved into an area  bright with streetlights, which  shone inside the
car. Rochelle  observed Michael  in his  dark clothing  looking like  some dark,
dangerous and shadowy figure that belied  the gentleness she remembered so well.
Withdrawing his arm from  about her, he quickly pulled the  black shirt over his
head and  discarded it  on the  floorboard. Then  pulling a  short-sleeved sport
shirt off the seat,  he put it on quickly and buttoned it.  The men up front did
likewise, changing out of the dark shirts  to don lighter ones. When they passed
a dumpster, Joe brought the car to a  stop, and Leland threw the dark shirts and
black hoods in the dumpster.

Just  in case  the  police stopped  them, there  wouldn't  be any  incriminating
evidence to mark their recent activities.

Rochelle glanced at  Michael, the thrill of elation at  seeing him again leaving
her giddy. “I didn't hear the dogs, Michael. Where were they?”





Michael chuckled.  “They had  a steak dinner  and turned in  for the  night. I
imagine they'll sleep soundly until morning.”

Michael kept  looking out  the back  window. Joe was  also glancing  through the
rearview  mirror. “You  see that  Mike?” he  asked. “You  don't think  its
Curly, do you?”

“I see it. Take  a right at the next street. If it  follows us, Rochelle and I
will hop out and  hide in the shadows. Call Curly on the  two-way radio and give
him the  name of the  street so he  can pick us up  if something goes  wrong. If
worse  comes to  worst,  we will  take  a cab  to the  nearest  motel from  this
location. If you can't  find us and we get separated, I'll get  a rental car and
head out of town. You guys do the same.”

Handing Rochelle  a brown  paper bag, he  said, “Honey, you're  going to  be a
blonde again. You'd better put this on.”

She quickly stuffed her hair beneath the wig, and straightened it upon her head.
“I think I like  this one better than the last one I  wore,” she said with a
nervous chuckle to  hide her anxiousness. She was scared  and still shaking. The
lateness of the hour did not offer heavy enough traffic to give them good cover.

Leland called  Curly on the two-way  radio and gave him  their location. “Keep
your eye on that car that's moving up behind us. I can't tell if it's the police
or not.  If it  is, Michael and  Rochelle will  jump out and  take cover  in the
shadow of a storefront. I'll be in touch.”

Joe turned on  another street, and they all  were keeping an eye on  the rear to
see if the other car would follow them.

The other car, a couple of blocks back, turned in behind them.

“They're following us, Mike. I am going to turn another corner, and the two of
you jump out and hide in the shadow of  a doorway. If it is the cops, I will ask
for the nearest motel  as a diversion and make my way there.  I will circle back
here just in case Curly misses you.  Don't take a cab unless you absolutely have
to. The police will put them on alert, I imagine.”

They turned the corner and Michael and Rochelle jumped out and ran for the cover
of a  darkened doorway.  They hovered  in the  shadows and  watched as  a police
cruiser rushed  by, following Curly  and Leland. Staying  in the shadows  of the
buildings, they backtracked  to the first side street where  Joe had turned off.
Soon they saw headlights and Michael thought it looked like the car Curly drove.
When it  came close  enough that he  recognized it, Michael  stepped out  of the
shadows, and waved.

When Curly  stopped at  the curb  and they jumped  in, he  turned around  in the
street and went back  the way he came, picking up his route  again at the light.
“Was that the police following you, Mike?”

“Yes, they'll be all  over the place soon. We have to get  out of here as fast
as possible. We  will wait for Joe to call  us. It won't be safe for  us to call
him if the police pulls him over.”

“Maybe we need to find a motel and lie low until tomorrow.

With more traffic on the streets, we'll be less observable,” Curly suggested.

“No, that's out.  As soon as Chandler  learns what has happened,  he will have
everybody he knows out looking for Rochelle. I think we best get the hell out of
here. Let's just keep moving.”

“You got it!”





Chapter Thirty-Four


Keeping in touch through the two-way  radios, Michael's group hooked up with Joe
after he gave them  directions to the gas station where he  had stopped. The few
remaining hours  of nighttime  seemed to  crawl as  the two  vehicles, traveling
with  at least  a  block between  them,  took numerous  detours  away from  main
thoroughfares. Near dawn, the traffic began  picking up with delivery trucks and
early morning  proprietors beating  the regular  work crowd  who would  pack the
streets bumper to bumper soon after sunrise.

Joe, being  in the lead  vehicle, determined  their detouring routes  until they
could pick  up the Sunshine  State Parkway far enough  outside the city  so they
would be less apt to encounter a patrol car.

Approximately six hours later when they came to Wildwood, everyone was breathing
easier. Stopping at a  car rental place, they decided to trade  the two cars for
two others, just in case the police had a make on the cars. Then they had a late
breakfast and got back on the road.

No one said  a great deal during  their drive from Miami, all  keenly aware they
could be the source  of an APB. All the men in both  cars kept their eyes pealed
for  patrol cars,  careful to  flow at  the speed  of traffic  to avoid  drawing
attention.

“Chelle, I think it's safe to take off your wig now,” Michael said.

“Are you  sure?” Rochelle asked.  “I was sort  of getting used  to wearing
it.” She was  snuggled up against Michael  and loving the feel  and texture of
his body next to her.

“I'm sure,”  he said,  reaching up  and playfully plucking  the wig  off her
head.  Her  long auburn-gold  curls  tumbled  off her  head  and  down over  her
shoulders. Michael  ran his  fingers in her  hair, and pressed  a kiss  upon her
cheek.

They had all changed their seating arrangements following breakfast. Leland went
to ride  with Udell  and Curly, and  Ramm took  the wheel of  the lead  car. Joe
rested  on the  passenger  seat after  having  driven all  the  way from  Miami.
Rochelle and Michael sat in the back seat.





“Miss, that's some  place you were living in back  there,” Joe said, turning
on the seat to glance at Rochelle.

“Yes, I suppose it is,” she said. “Please call me Rochelle.”

“Okay, Rochelle. What exactly does your husband do?”

Rochelle glanced at Michael, not certain a discussion about Tobias was something
she wanted to  get into. Michael nodded  his head, however, and  she answered as
best  she could.  “I was  prevented  from knowing  about his  business, but  I
suspect he was involved  in the smuggling of drugs out of  Columbia and the drug
trade in Miami. I never knew a great  deal of what goes on, but I suspect things
aren't going well just  now. I think my husband might be on  the hot seat and it
all has to do with a man recently arrested, whose name is Monroe Tatum.

Rochelle had cut out  the article about Monroe Tatum from  the newspaper and put
it in her purse. Careful not to expose the gun she carried there, she pulled the
clipping out and handed it to Michael.

“I thought you might be interested in this. I think it might be at the root of
some of the problems Tobias is experiencing right now.”

He took the article, unfolded it and scanned the contents. “It sounds like the
State Attorney is  going after Chandler, probably by cutting  a deal with Tatum.
That means Chandler  is under the gun to  get Tatum out of jail by  any means he
can.”

“I heard him mention the name of  a judge. He is feeling intimidated right now
because of this Tatum  person. The judge who was supposed to get  the case is on
vacation. I heard Tobias tell someone on the phone to get Judge Salvador back on
his bench and have the attorneys do what they could to stall the trial. From the
tone of his voice on the phone, the Columbia people were upset with Tobias. That
was his reason for flying down there.”

“If the state attorney can get one of  the organization's men to cop a plea by
turning Chandler over to them, then he's in hot water. I imagine that is what he
is afraid of  happening. What I do  not understand is how he  could have avoided
the same kind of situation in the  past. Surely there have been other arrests of
people in his organization,” Michael said.

“I've  heard bits  and pieces  of information  when Tobias  has talked  on the
phone. I think the attorneys get them  out on bail and then they disappear. I've
heard  Tobias on  a  couple of  occasions  on  the phone  tell  someone to  make
so-and-so disappear.”

“Jesus!” Joe exclaimed.  “Mike, did you realize all this  when you decided
to bust the little lady out?”

“I didn't go into it totally blind, Joe,” he said, glancing at Rochelle.

“Well, I for one  am glad it's over and we got Rochelle  out of there. I'm not
going to ask  how you got involved with someone  like him, Rochelle.” Intended
or not, it came out as a question.

“Thank you for not asking,” Rochelle replied and let the conversation drop.

Everyone was  in a lighthearted  spirit thus far,  their success giving  them an
adrenaline high that  simmered down by slow degrees until  a normalcy prevailed.
Everything occurring  back at the estate  took no longer than  twenty minutes or
less, but opinions and reactions to  occurrences strung the tale out much longer
than it actually was.  It had been a successful venture for  them and they could
go  back to  their  lives without  an afterthought;  at  least, everyone  except
Rochelle and Michael. Tobias would be a dangerous opponent now for them both.

“Living in a fortress like that, and with the number of people on his payroll,
your husband obviously has a lot of secrets to hide.

Mike, I wouldn't take  him lightly. A man like him doesn't  take easily to their
wife being  snatched from  their bed,”  Joe said,  thinking about  the gunshot
wound Michael  had sustained, and understanding  fully why Michael paid  them so
much.  Their  lives  had been  at  risk  and  only  a generous  sum  would  have
compensated them in such a dangerous venture.

Michael looked slightly grave, his jaws clamped tightly shut.

He was  thinking about that  very bed Joe had  mentioned. He was  thinking about
Rochelle sleeping  in that bed with  Tobias, Tobias touching her,  Tobias making
love to  her. A raw wound  seemed to coil up  inside him like a  poisonous snake
ready to strike. He  knew exactly what it was, jealousy. He  was so damn jealous
at the thought of another man touching her that it tore into his gut like mighty
fangs.

The mood was  much too serious, so  Rochelle attempted to lighten  things a bit.
“I imagine  there'll be some  job openings for  guards when Tobias  comes back
from Columbia.”

The two  men in the front  seat burst out  laughing. “I have a  feeling you're
right,” Joe agreed.  “Mike, I wouldn't have missed this  for anything,” he
ventured with a grin. “You certainly  planned it all carefully. Frankly, I was
afraid it wouldn't come off so well.”

“When that  bullet whizzed by within  an inch of  my skull, I feared  the same
thing,” Michael said with dry humor, feeling Rochelle stiffen beside him.

“It came  that close, huh?”  Joe questioned,  while his brows  furrowed with
concentration over  the possible outcome.  “Jesus, if  you had been  shot, the
whole place might have become a battle ground. We might all have been killed.”

“I think we were  all pretty lucky when it came to  dodging bullets. I thought
I'd nearly  taken one or  two before  I took out  that last guard,”  Ramm told
them, it being the first time he had opened his mouth since taking the wheel.

“Fellows, we can all give ourselves a pat  on the back for a job well done,”
Michael told them.





“It'll be dark soon. Why don't we stop some place to eat?” Joe suggested.

“Mike, if  we're going  to drive  straight through, we're  going to  be mighty
tired when we get there,” Ramm speculated.

“Maybe we  should get a  room and grab  a few hours sleep  before we go  on. I
could sure use it,” Joe said, yawning at the thought of a comfortable bed.

“I think we all could use a rest  now that we're far enough away from Miami to
breathe a bit  easier. I have been  thinking we should probably get  a plane the
rest of the way.  We will have dinner and inquire where  the nearest airport is,
and then  I will see  about making  flight arrangements—maybe charter  a plane
large enough to accommodate us all. Call Curly and let him know our plans.”

“Man, that would be fine with  me,” Ramm suggested. “This traveling by car
will get monotonous before we get home.”

They pulled off at the next exit ramp.



THE NEAREST AIRPORT was about forty miles ahead. Michael called to inquire about
flight arrangements. Michael  was put in touch  with a local pilot  who would be
glad  to  transport  them,  but  because  the pilot  had  taken  on  an  earlier
reservation, there would be a two-night layover.

They rented rooms at a nearby motel.

For the sake of appearances, Michael rented Rochelle her own room adjoining his.
Afterwards, it  crossed his mind he  opted for separate rooms  for reasons other
than appearance. No matter how hard he tried,  he could not get it from his mind
that  Rochelle was  with Tobias  the past  several weeks,  sleeping in  his bed,
having him make  love to her. Visualizing Tobias touching  her in those intimate
places, and making love  to Rochelle, was a mental picture that  ate at him with
such fervor he couldn't  let go of it. He was so damn  jealous it was messing up
his mind badly.

Jealously was a new  emotion for him, and he knew of no  easy way to control it.
In addition to that, as if jealousy  were not already enough venom in his blood,
anger at Tobias Chandler came in the form of resentment, outrage, and hostility.
Unable to inflict  his wrath on Tobias,  Rochelle became a handy  target. He was
neither ignorant nor a fool, and he knew she was not responsible for what Tobias
did to her. It was  not her fault. If she had had her  way, she never would have
gone back with  Tobias. Nevertheless, the fact  of the matter was,  she had gone
with him and had participated in sex with him.

Michael actually found himself shuddering when  he thought of Tobias making love
to Rochelle, and oddly, he wanted to shove her away from him, to heap on her the
misery he was experiencing. As insane as such emotions made him, he was not sure
how to go about getting this venom from his system. Rochelle did not deserve his
attitude.

Yet, the jealousy lodged in his brain like a leech he was unable to shake off.





Chapter Thirty-Five


Michael dreaded the two long nights ahead of them while waiting for their flight
back to Montana. With separate bedrooms and  him feeling the way he did, he knew
he was bound to  create problems neither he nor Rochelle  needed. He wanted her,
but  jealous  anger aroused  such  conflicting  feelings  he  did not  have  the
inclination to seek her out, thus, causing him to curse his damn stupidity.





To hurt her with  what he was feeling would not be fair.  Yet, his jealously was
so replete, he felt helpless to deal with it. He kept asking himself how a woman
could  lie  beneath  a  man  and  not respond.  If  she  responded,  wasn't  she
participating? Pondering  the reasoning of an  if this, then that  mentality, he
built a strong  case against Rochelle. As  uncharacteristic as it was  of him to
feel jealousy, it  now crippled his objectivity. He loved  Rochelle and resented
her  at once.  He knew  his insidious  thinking was  unwarranted, knew  Rochelle
wasn't responsible  for anything  Tobias did  to her; but  it failed  to restore
normal thought to his screwed up mind.

Jealousy! It was the most bitter and useless of all emotions.

Michael realized it was like a sick  disease; yet, he failed to find an antidote
against its potency.

He lay upon his  bed, stripped down to briefs after  showering, one ankle thrown
over the  other, staring up  at the ceiling.  She was in  the next room  with an
adjoining door  between them.  For the  past thirty  minutes, he  had considered
numerous approaches to that door and her  room, and none of them made more sense
than the true reason of simply wanting  to be with her. Finally, finding the bed
too confining,  he pulled on  his trousers, and  walked toward the  door between
their two rooms. He raised a fist, about to knock, when he stopped himself.

Damn it, he thought. What is wrong with me? He had spent a fortune hiring men to
aid him in  her rescue, had risked all  their lives to that end, and  now he did
not have the nerve to knock on her damn door. He fell back on the bed and stared
at the ceiling some more, mentally cursing himself.

Rochelle  finished her  shower,  toweled  dry, and  put  her  clothing back  on,
expecting Michael to join  her. She took a brush from her  purse and brushed her
hair until it shone with a lustrous splendor of wild curls and shimmering satiny
waves. She paced the  floor a few times, waiting for Michael.  She went to stand
at the adjoining door,  then put her ear against it,  thinking she heard someone
breathing on the other side. It must have been her imagination, she decided, and
turned from the door, a nagging emptiness gnawing inside her.

The longer  she waited for him,  the more uneasy  her doubts became. The  two of
them  had not  said a  great deal  to each  other on  the trip  from Miami.  She
credited it to  the fact that they  were not alone; yet,  she instinctively felt
something was bothering Michael.

Finally, deciding Michael must have fallen asleep, she stripped off her clothing
down to her bra  and panties, and fell exhausted upon  the bed, feeling suddenly
alone and unwanted. She yearned to have Michael near her.



ROCHELLE WAS DOZING FITFULLY when the  soft knock sounded on the adjoining door.
It was so soft she  was not sure she had even heard it.  Then it came again, and
she rose sharply  to a sitting position,  throwing her feet off the  side of the
bed. She  tiptoed to the door  and listened. “Yes?” she  whispered so softly
she could barely hear her own voice.

“Chelle, it's me, Michael. Open the door.”

She unlocked the door on her side and pulled it open.

“Honey, I'm  sorry if I woke  you. I had to  see you.” He gazed  at her, the
sweet smell  from a recent  shower emanating from her  person. Here she  was, in
body, spirit, and mind, the love of  his life, turning his stomach sour with the
bitter bile of jealousy.

“Oh, Michael,” she murmured dismally, “I thought... I just thought...”

“What did you think?” he whispered  softly, reaching out to touch and caress
her cheek.

“I thought you didn't want to be with me.”





He laughed with  irony. “Not want to  be with you! I've  traveled nearly three
thousand miles to find you again, and you  think I don't want to be with you?”
He reached out his arms.

“I'm sorry, Michael, for doubting you. It's just that I'm...”

Rochelle needed no further coaxing. She went into his arms, her breasts pressing
against his naked chest, their hearts pounding like hammers against each other.

Michael's hands  glazed over the smooth  softness of her back,  undoing her bra,
pulling it off her  shoulders and tossing it aside. His  hand crawled up beneath
the mane of hair to the nape of her neck.

Slanting his mouth over hers, the tip of his tongue flicked across her lips in a
fierce melding  of need.  His lips  burned and  enticed, their  fiery insistence
warming Rochelle to  the core of her  womanhood. It was the  reunion she wanted,
had expected.

God, it had been too long, Michael thought now as desire rose and his deft hands
scorched  every inch  of Rochelle's  desirable  body with  his heated  caresses.
Backing her toward the bed, he strung a path of hot kisses down to the hollow of
her throat.

Then he lowered her to the bed, his powerful muscles flexing with strength as he
supported her weight. Brushing her face with  kisses, his lips made a trail down
her  tingling  flesh to  taste  the  ripeness of  taut  nipples  that seemed  to
quiver  beneath  the plundering  of  his  tongue.  Covering  a nipple  with  his
mouth,  he sucked  on  the small  orb,  the  globes of  her  breasts rising  and
falling in  passionate surrender. He was  lost to something more  demanding than
jealousy—the gathering of stormy passion in his needy body.

Michael wanted more than  anything to give Rochelle as much  pleasure as she was
giving him, but as  he kissed and fondled her, removing  her bikini panties, his
hands and fingers  claiming the sensitive areas photographed in  his memory, his
manhood throbbed out of control with need. He touched her wet moistness, content
with her readiness,  and he hovered above her, his  manhood brushing the fertile
path of her femininity, then sinking deep inside her moist warmth.

In  an answering  response,  Rochelle slid  her long  slender  fingers over  the
rippling muscles of  his shoulder and back,  down to his firm  buns that hovered
above her. She touched  her tongue to his ear, the tip  fondling and teasing the
tiny hollows inside, her teeth nibbling gently at the lobe.

With a groan that verged on pure  pain, Michael silently extolled the joy of his
pleasure, moving  with purposefulness  to deliver  similar joy  to the  woman he
loved. He moved slowly  at first, in and out, deeper and  deeper, until her hips
came up to meet him and claim all of him.

“God, how I've needed you,” he  declared, smothering her face with kisses as
his passion rose to a precipice with  hers. Then they both plunged over the edge
in a flaming whirlpool of quivering, hot-white fire.

In the  aftermath of their  frenzied lovemaking,  Michael raised himself  on his
arms,  staring at  her  delicate face  through  the shadows  of  the pale  light
penciling in  from around the outer  edges of the draperies.  Her face, embedded
into his memory for all time, was the face of the woman he loved.

Rochelle reached up, touching her hand to the beads of perspiration on his face,
straining to see his shadowed features. She  traced the outline of his lips, and
planted a tender kiss there. “I love you, Michael.”

“I know,” he said  huskily, bending to feather a kiss  against her lips. She
became silent  with expectancy, and  Michael was certain  she waited for  him to
declare his love  for her. Sadly, now  that his attention was  less focused, the
hateful jealously  came flooding back  leaving him  voiceless. He rolled  to one
side, keeping her coupled with him, their hips and thighs joined.

Rochelle wanted to hear  him say it, wanted to hear him admit  his love for her.
He wrote it  in his letters, had  even mumbled the words the  afternoon they had
made love  before Tobias  abducted her  back to Miami.  Neither of  those times,
however, sufficed. She wanted  to hear it now, needed the  sense of security the
three little words could give her.

Her heart  felt suddenly heavy  with regret that Michael  failed to say  the one
thing capable  of clearing her  disturbing doubts. Even  while he held  her, his
hands glazing gentle caresses over her back and shoulders, there was darkness in
his mood  that she  sensed and  felt. It  sorely bothered  her that  even during
intimacy he put a barrier between them.

Michael  was  not  aware  Rochelle  might read  something  into  his  quietness.
Enraptured by the surrounding warmth of her womanhood, he savored the passionate
intensity in  the aftermath of their  lovemaking. Lying sated with  her still in
his  arms,  he  should  have  been the  happiest  man  alive,  especially  after
successfully  rescuing  her  from  Tobias.  Nonetheless,  niggling  thoughts  of
Tobias's intimacy  with Rochelle  destroyed his  peace of  mind as  nothing else
could. How could he come to terms with the fact of sharing her with another?

Feeling a mixture of anger, repentance and  guilt, his hand slid over her breast
and along her abdomen to her navel. His hand froze.

In his mind's eye, he could see Tobias doing the same thing. His head reeled out
of control,  his breathing becoming short  and labored. His jaw  clamped tightly
shut  until  he  could  hear  his  teeth  grinding  together.  He  was  actually
experiencing an anxiety attack, and knew he had to get the hell out of there and
back to his room.





“Michael, what is it?” Rochelle implored  in a troubled tone. She sensed his
distress, felt it in the tense stiffness of his neck and shoulders.

“It's nothing, honey. I'd better go back to my room.” He swung his legs over
the  side of  the bed.  “I  wouldn't want  the boys  to  find me  here in  the
morning.”

“No,” she cried, holding his arm, wanting him to stay with her.

“Don't leave me, Michael.” It was a heartfelt plea.

“I have to go,” he said too quickly, breaking away from her.

“The guys might be trying to reach me in my room.”

He hastened to his room, closing the adjoining door. Leaning back against it, he
inhaled deeply to fill his starving lungs with air.

For a couple of  minutes his chest felt so tight he was  certain he was having a
heart attack, but after a few minutes, he  was just as certain it was a bad case
of nerves reciprocating to an overdose of anxiety.

Michael  cursed the  demons inside  him. His  anger had  shifted from  Tobias to
Rochelle. Now  he had  an inkling  of how  men's minds  worked when  they turned
abusive toward their spouses or girlfriends. He knew he would never stoop so low
as to  turn abusive,  at least  not physically,  but there  were other  types of
abuse, and he knew  Rochelle was feeling the affects of it. He  also knew he had
to get control. The problem was that his brain did not want to cooperate.

Rochelle sat  up in bed and  reached to turn  on the light. Doubts  unfurled and
multiplied. He did  not love her! The thought pounded  like tiny hammers against
her skull. He could  not possibly love her, or else he would  not have made love
to her and then walked out while she pleaded for him to stay. He traveled nearly
three thousand miles to get her. When had he decided it was all a big mistake?

Whatever Michael's problem, it started prior to him coming to her room. The fact
it took him so long confirmed that suspicion.





Still, it had not deterred him from wanting her body! That angered her.

Suddenly she  felt dirty and  unclean the way Tobias  had always made  her feel.
Michael's lovemaking  had been no more  than an interlude, a  moment of pleasure
quickly forgotten  when he  was finished  with her. Nothing  he might  have done
could have made her  feel less despicable than having made love  to her and then
hurrying from her bed as if he could not  wait to get the hell away. A number of
feelings trespassed across  her mind: sadness, shock,  humiliation, and finally,
an ache  so agonizing it  was like a  sharp knife slicing  away at her  peace of
mind.

Dragging herself  from the  bed, she  went to the  bathroom, smelling  the faint
manly  scent of  him still  on  her where  his perspiration  dampened her  body.
Turning the shower  taps on, she adjusted the temperature,  and stepped into the
stall, feeling lousy and terribly alone.

Deserted.



MICHAEL  HAD NO  IDEA what  time he  finally fell  asleep. When  he did,  he had
damnable dreams where he actually watched Tobias making love to Rochelle. It was
too much for his fragile nerves to handle, shooting his disposition all to hell.
When daylight came, he was exhausted, and  as grouchy as a hungry black bear. He
did not want to see her, not in this frame of mind, so when Joe buzzed his phone
and suggested they go have breakfast, Michael had other plans.

“Take Rochelle with you, Joe. I'll catch up with you after I shower.”

Joe was  silent a moment. “You  sure, Mike? I'd  think she'd want to  wait for
you.” He knew Mike had been with her  last night, at least for a while. He and
Curly both had  called his room to see if  he wanted to go out for  a drink with
them. When  he didn't  answer, they  laughed at  their ill  timing and  went out
without him.

“I'm sure,” Michael replied too sharply, and Joe backed off immediately.

“We'll be in the motel dining room,” Joe told him and hung up.

“What was that all  about?” Curly asked as he sat in a  chair in the room he
and Joe shared.

“I don't know. I  think the little lady must have turned  him down last night.
He is in some hellishly sour mood this morning, and I sure would not expect that
if  she had  made him  happy last  night. I  guess there's  trouble in  paradise
already.”

“Maybe he didn't get enough sleep,” Curly suggested.

“We both know that  sleep is the last thing you care about  when you're in bed
with a beautiful woman.  I think he slept in his own bed,  else he wouldn't have
answered the phone yawning like he just woke up.”

“Well, when  we knock on her  door, maybe she'll be  in a better mood  than he
is,” Curly speculated with a smile.



ROCHELLE SLEPT SPORADICALLY during the late  morning hours before dawn. She woke
with the  first signs of  daylight penciling through at  the outer edges  of the
drapes. She was tried, weary, and  emotionally drained. She dragged herself from
bed, and took another  quick shower to wake herself before  dressing. She had no
idea what the  agenda was for the day,  so she turned on the  television and sat
watching the early morning news, not really  seeing it at all. Instead, her mind
played a game  of you should, as she  thought about how she was  going to handle
coming face to face with Michael this morning.

If she expected  a knock on the  adjoining door between her  and Michael's room,
she was sadly  disillusioned when the knock  came on the front  door. Assuming a
cheerful pose,  she opened it  to see  the entire crew  of five men  outside her
door. All her well  rehearsed posturing took a shock. Her  eyes widened, and she
looked like she was about to be abducted again.

“Good morning,” Joe said. “You look rested.”

“Good morning,” she replied, looking from  one to the other, and not feeling
at all rested.

“Ms. Chandler...” Curly began.

“Please don't call me that. My name is Rochelle.”

“Rochelle, Mike  said to take  you to  breakfast. He's running  late,” Curly
said with an impish look on his face.

Rochelle's heart took another dip, but she was not about to wear her feelings on
her sleeve. She marched right along beside  Joe while the other four men flanked
them on both sides.





Chapter Thirty-Six


Rochelle refused to go to lunch or dinner that day. Joe brought food to her, and
she thanked him, hardly eating more than  a few bites to sustain her energy. The
night came and went, and she was exhausted from tossing and turning all night.

When Curly  and Joe knocked  on her  door, she opened  it, looking like  she had
waged war with hell. When the men  invited her to breakfast, she refused without
any reason.  Having encountered Michael's disposition  as he stalked off  to the
restaurant, they decided she did not need a reason. Paradise was in one big hell
of a mess.

Joe took it upon himself to have something sent to Rochelle's room. A heavy mood
like a dark cloud descended upon them all, and the adrenaline charged excitement
stimulated by the rescue was behind them. They were ready to get home.





Michael looked like he had fought the same battle Rochelle had.

He had not  bothered to shave, and his  eyes were red and bloodshot  like he was
the devil's own emissary. Not one among them was sorry that they would be flying
off to Montana that day and would have this experience behind them.

Rochelle sat in her  room, distractedly pushing her fork about  the food sent to
her room. She took  a bite distastefully. Her emotions were  too tight and tense
to allow an appetite. She pushed the dish aside, and drank the coffee, refilling
her cup from the little carafe that held  two extra cups. She could not help but
feel  like a  death  ship washed  ashore  on  a lonely  island.  Behind her  was
imprisonment, and ahead of her was cold emptiness. She was certain that whatever
she and Michael once shared was now finished.

She  continued sitting  in her  motel room,  not  a penny  to her  name, and  no
clothing but what she wore, not knowing  what she would do if Michael decided to
leave her there. While the thought of being left behind might sound preposterous
to anyone else, to Rochelle, who had  suffered too numerous abuses to count, she
expected nearly anything anymore. Few things in life surprised her.

She didn't know what she would do, did not even care any longer.

She  stretched out  on the  bed, wishing  she could  take a  nap when  the knock
sounded on the  adjoining door. She continued lying there,  hoping he would just
go away  and leave her alone,  leave her in peace—or  misery—whatever it was
drawing  the life  from her.  The knock  became more  persistent, and  still she
ignored it. She  did not want to see  him again, did not want to  be reminded of
how much she hurt from seeing his disapproving face and feeling his rejection.

Then like a  giant shadow invading her  room and thoughts, the  door between the
two  rooms opened  and  Michael  entered, his  unshaven  chin  reminding her  of
Tobias's scary dark features.

“Chelle…” was all he said, standing there staring at her.





“What do you  want, Michael?” she asked, too emotionally  drained to pretend
cordiality.

“I want you to  try to understand. I don't know what in  the hell is happening
to me. God, I cannot even stand myself. I know I'm a son of a bitch, but I swear
to you, I'm trying like hell to get control.”

“Get control  of what, Michael?”  she asked  dryly. “How can  I understand
when I don't know what's wrong?”

“I've got  a head problem, Chelle,  But, I'm working  on it, trying to  put it
behind me.”

The  space  between Rochelle's  eyes  narrowed.  “Michael, you're  not  making
sense,”  she said  dispassionately. “I  don't understand,  and I'm  tired of
guessing. It  is as  though you want  me, but  don't want me.  I don't  know you
anymore. I  don't know who  you are, or  what you want,  but I have  decided you
don't want me. Your attitude toward me is  so despicable that I prefer not to be
in your company.”

He paced a  few steps. “I'm trying to  handle this, Chelle. Is it  too much to
ask for a little patience on your part?”

“Patience,  Michael?  You want  me  to  be patient  while  you  treat me  with
contempt. With the hell I went through  with Tobias, do you think I want another
man who treats me as badly as he did?”

“Don't compare me to that son of a bitch! If not for him...”

She paused, searching  his face, letting his  words sink in. “If  not for him,
then what?”

“Oh, to  hell with it,” he  snorted, and stalked back  through the adjoining
door to  his room. Before he  closed it, he shot  her a blazing look  and stated
plaintively, “We're leaving soon for the airport in case you're interested.”

Like a zombie,  Rochelle rolled off the  bed, went to the  bathroom, brushed her
hair, repaired  her makeup, and  walked out of the  room into a  sunless morning
filled  with dark  clouds that  threatened rain.  She saw  the five  men waiting
outside,  standing by  the  two cars  looking  at her,  and  then turning  their
attention to Michael as he stepped from his room.

She knew she was supposed to smile, to be the super human person who could smile
when  there was  nothing in  the world  to  smile about,  to be  like a  hostess
greeting her guests;  but somehow, for the  moment, it all escaped  her, and she
could  only be  what she  felt,  alone, lonely,  and discarded.  She mastered  a
distant stare as she entered the car. Michael slid in beside her, and the two of
them were like two lifeless statues, once human, but now turned to stone.



THEY BOARDED THE PLANE, a quiet group,  for sure. Neither of them said anything,
and Rochelle turned her  head to the window, watching the  banks of white clouds
swallow the plane when it became airborne.

“Chelle,” Michael said, reaching for her hand.

She snatched it away and pretended he  wasn't there, continuing to stare out the
window.

“Please don't tune me out. I'm trying to get past this.”

He spoke in a whisper to prevent the others from hearing.

She turned and locked  gazes with him. “What is it you're  trying to get past,
Michael?”

“I'm trying  to put some meaning  behind all these prickly  feelings I've been
having. This is not about you. It's about me,” he spoke quietly.

“I see. You are  having prickly feelings. Well, I am sorry  to hear about your
prickly feelings, Michael. I sympathize with your distress.”

“You just don't understand.”

They  both  whispered despite  the  continual  buzz  of  the plane  engine  that
scrambled what they and the others were saying.

Michael's tone was  solemn with regret, while Rochelle's was  angry, bitter, and
contrary.

“You're right. I  do not understand. I  do not understand why  you came nearly
three thousand  miles to rescue me  from a horrible marriage  when you obviously
cannot decide why you did it. I do not understand how you could declare love for
me in your letters, but lose your nerve when  you are face to face with me. I do
not understand how you can make love to me  in a motel room and then run away as
though I were no more than a mere convenience.

There's much I don't understand, Michael, and you haven't attempted to enlighten
me.”

“Chelle, I know you don't deserve this.  I'm really screwed up, and every time
I try to sort things out, I get more screwed up.”

“Is there some hidden message in all  that mishmash of words, Michael? I don't
know what you are talking about, and frankly, I am too upset to play word games.
If you have something to say, just come right  out and say it, else do us both a
favor and let it drop altogether.”

“To hell with it!”  he cursed. Then in a raised  voice, he continued. “You
have no idea what I've been through since that son of a bitch took you away.”

“And you have no idea what I've been through, Michael. You have no idea at all
what my life with  Tobias has been like. You have no idea  how much I yearned to
die every time I thought I would never see you again.”

Clearing her throat, she continued. “I was a fool. Tobias taught me the lesson
of all lessons. He taught me how to  distrust, and I was the biggest fool of all
for trusting you.”

A low groan escaped his lips. He glanced around to see if anyone had heard, then
he shook his head in frustration. “You know  I love you, else why would I risk
all our lives to come get you?”





She was  thoughtful, but  still defensive.  “Love is  supposed to  make people
happy, Michael,  not tear them apart.  How can you love  me and treat me  like a
stranger? I  have lived with that  sort of contempt  for five long years,  and I
cannot do it  anymore. To answer your question, I'm  beginning to wonder exactly
why you did come and get me.”

“What is it you want of me, Chelle? What in the hell do you expect?”

“The fact that  you even have to  ask that question is answer  enough that you
and I made a  terrible mistake. Don't trouble yourself any  further. I will make
no  demands upon  you. I  just want  to  live in  peace without  having to  fear
everyday that life is just one more miserable burden to have to face.”

“You still  don't understand, do you?  You have no  idea the hell I  have gone
through thinking  of you  in his arms,  him kissing you,  him touching  you, him
making love to you. How can you sleep  with any man and not respond? How can you
make yourself like a  cold piece of ice and not feel some  desire or need strong
enough to cause  you to participate, to make you  seek fulfillment for yourself?
And how can you expect me to believe you were non-responsive?”

“God, Michael,” she said, her lips  curling up into a venomous contortion of
disgust. “How can you even conceive such a thing? If you had any idea the hell
Tobias has  put me  through in  his bed, you'd  be crawling  on your  knees with
remorse and apology.”

“Then tell me, assure  me that what I'm thinking is  rubbish. Help me overcome
this green sickness, Chelle, so we can get  back to where we were before he came
for you.”

She gritted her teeth. “How dare you to even ask me to bear the responsibility
for your sick thoughts!  Just leave me alone. Go back  to Caroline. She's better
able to  give without receiving  than I  am. I won't  be the scapegoat  for your
jealousy, not after the hell I've lived through with Tobias.”

She turned away  from him and refused to acknowledge  his presence. Watching the
white,  fluffy banks  of clouds  sliding  past her  window made  her drowsy  and
sleepy, and finally  she closed her eyes  and gave in to the  tiredness that was
more emotional than physical.

Michael watched her golden-red curls tumbling over her shoulders in a soft array
of  warm color.  He reached  and pushed  a satiny  tendril from  her cheek,  and
watched  as she  stirred slightly  beneath  his touch.  Her gorgeous  complexion
looked like  a mixture  of cream and  honey, and without  thinking, he  bent and
dusted a tiny kiss upon her brow.

It seemed everyone on the plane was  sleeping now. A silence descended over all,
and only the loudness of his thoughts provided company for Michael.

A sudden loud burst of coughing  behind them brought Rochelle struggling up from
sleep.  Sitting up  straight, she  looked about  to get  her bearings,  and then
rubbed her eyes with her fists.

She turned  toward Michael, wanting  to ask him how  long the flight  would take
them. “Michael...” she began, and watched  with shock as he sloughed her off
with a dismissive wave of his hand.

“Just  let  it  go,”  he  said,  thinking she  was  about  to  continue  the
conversation where they  left off. “Just leave me alone,”  he added quietly,
his face pale and drawn against an inky dark beard.

She turned  away from  him, seeing the  ghosts of torment  that could  tear them
apart for all time.  Twice in less than two days, he turned  away from her. Just
leave me alone, he said. She could  feel the breach growing wider just as surely
as if a raging  river had torn a bridge from its  moorings leaving an impassable
gap.





Tucking her legs beneath her and turning as  far away from him as she could, she
nursed her concerns by hiding her face against a pillow.



AFTER THEIR PLANE  LANDED and they were  in the terminal, Michael  turned to the
five men, shaking each of their hands.

“Fellows, you're on your own now. See me at the bank tomorrow afternoon.”

Then shaking hands with each of them as Michael had done, Rochelle thanked them.
“Thanks for everything,” was all she said, and the men nodded their heads in
acknowledgment.

Following a few exchanges  of idle repartee with them, Michael  turned to go. He
hustled  Rochelle to  a waiting  cab.  He opened  the  door and  bid her  enter,
crawling in behind her, quickly giving  the driver their destination. Their ride
was in silence.

When  they arrived  in front  of the  senior Matheson's  home, Rochelle  allowed
Michael to help her  from the cab. Asking the cab driver to  wait, he walked her
to the door, opened it and handed her  the key while he flicked on lights in the
foyer and outside on the wide  stoop. Streetlights lit the sidewalk and driveway
where the taxi waited.

Michael  guided Rochelle  inside to  the security  panel in  the foyer  where he
pushed some buttons to  stop its beeping. He jotted down  the code for disarming
it, and the setup code just in case  she might have forgotten it, and gave it to
her.

“Keep  the alarm  on at  all times,  Rochelle, and  keep the  doors locked.”
Turning on his heels, he stalked  away quickly, leaving Rochelle standing at the
door looking after him. Before the car was out of sight, she saw him glance back
once at her,  his face contorted by  the reflections of the  streetlights on the
glass, and  then he turned his  head and looked  straight ahead as the  cab sped
away.





Rochelle stumbled  blindly inside. The huge  house felt like a  mausoleum filled
with ghosts.  It haunted her memories  against happier times spent  there before
Tobias showed up to destroy the peaceful lifestyle she had attained.

From the  foot of the  stairs in  the foyer she  looked through the  open double
doors to the dining room. Walking inside the room, she touched the light switch.
Her attention sped to  the place where Michael had fallen  the night Tobias shot
him. She walked to  the spot, kneeling where she had seen  him fall, rubbing her
hand across the  carpet tenderly where pale stains of  blood remained even after
the cleaning Tillie  must have done. She pushed herself  to her knees, recalling
how happy they were on that night that now seemed a lifetime ago. Things happen,
and people change, she thought.

Obviously, Michael had changed a great deal.

With slow  deliberation, she  turned the  stairway light on  and started  up the
stairs. Her life  suddenly felt as empty  as this huge old house.  She could not
stay here. She  knew she couldn't. Without  Michael in her life,  the house held
too many memories, both  good and bad, and she just didn't  have the strength to
handle it.

At the top of  the stairs, she turned down the hallway  to her bedroom, flooding
the room with light at the flick of a switch.

Nothing was disturbed. Everything was just as she had left it, even her purse on
the bureau. She opened it, found her car  keys and house key. There was money in
her wallet. Michael had brought her checkbook from downstairs where she had been
balancing it  on the night  Tobias came. He  must have put  it in her  purse for
safekeeping; or Tillie had.

Tossing off  her clothing,  she flung the  wrinkled mess aside  and went  to the
shower. She  spent a  good thirty  minutes letting  the water  flow over  her in
splintery streams. She wanted  to cry, but felt too numb to  do so. An emptiness
invaded her,  much like she'd always  felt with Tobias, and  remembering back to
that first  day she met  Michael, she now wished  she had never  gotten involved
with him.

The pain of losing him was too big a price to pay.

When she stepped from the shower, the soft towel felt good against her skin. She
slid on a terry  cloth robe. Glancing at the clock, she was  tempted to just lie
down and try to sleep, but her  mind was working so frantically that sleep would
be hours  away. As  she made her  way back downstairs,  the phone  began ringing
loudly while, at the same time,  the doorbell chimed impatiently. She was nearer
the door than the phone, so she called out, “Who's there?”

“Sweetpea, it's me, Mabel. Let me in.”

Rochelle quickly turned off the alarm, and opened the door.

“Oh, Mabel,” she said, throwing herself into Mabel's plump arms.

“I'm so glad to see you.”

“There,  there, now,”  Mabel said,  patting  her back.  “Maybe you  should
answer your phone.”

Rochelle turned just as it stopped ringing.  Then with a shrug, she asked Mabel,
“How did you know I was back?”

“Mikey called and told me.”

“I can't stay here, Mabel.”

“Can't or don't want to?”

“I don't want to stay here anymore. I'm going to the motel.”

“I tell  you what, Sweetpea, go  pack your bag  and come home with  me. Tillie
stayed with me for  a while, but she is living at her  sister's house. I have an
empty bedroom you can use and tomorrow you can decide what you want to do.”

Rochelle nodded her  head, ran back up the  stairs to dress and pack  a bag. She
was back downstairs in a matter of minutes.

Turning all the lights out, except the foyer and the outside lights, she set the
alarm and left with Mabel just as the phone started ringing again.





Chapter Thirty-Seven


Michael must have let  the phone rang twenty times before he  hung up. The first
time  he  called, he  suspected  she  might be  in  the  shower, but  there  was
absolutely no way she could still be in  the shower after all this time. Just to
be sure,  he waited  another fifteen  minutes and called  again. The  phone kept
ringing, and he slammed  the receiver down with enough impact  to jar a figurine
off the table.

“Damn it, Rochelle! What in the hell are you trying to do to my mind?”

Even as  he cursed her,  he cursed  himself for leaving  her in that  damn empty
house. His intentions earlier that day had been  to have her pack a bag and come
home with him, but his anger blew out of control and prevented that. He knew she
was hurt when he  had walked away and left her, just as  she was hurt that night
at the motel when he walked out  of her room. Anger, self-deprecation, and guilt
rode on his back, and as much as  he wanted to make things right between him and
Rochelle, his mind seemed constipated with the green sickness.

While he was showering,  his intention had been to hit the  sack after he called
her. Now, sleep would be next to impossible until he knew where she was and that
she was  okay. He felt entirely  exhausted, the long trip  depleting his energy,
and his  damn arm and shoulder  were aching where that  bastard's bullet blasted
through it.

He slid on jeans, a  pull over shirt, and stuck his feet  in socks and sneakers.
He left the house, backing his car from the garage                             .

While  he drove  to  his birthplace,  fear  began  mounting in  his  gut like  a
time-bomb ready to  go off. He silently reprimanded himself  for not considering
that Tobias might  have some of his  men fly straight here. They  would have had
plenty of  time to arrive ahead  of him and  Rochelle since his party  spent two
nights in a motel.

“Damn!” He  cursed his ignorance  and foolhardy  jealously. He drove  like a
maniac until he  arrived at the house,  pulling up in the  driveway, and darting
from the car to the house. Pushing the doorbell several times, he looked through
the glass panel  in the door to  see the foyer light still  on. Nothing appeared
disturbed. He pulled the extra key from  his pocket and inserted it in the lock,
went inside, then pushed in the code to stop the alarm's beeping.

Racing up  the stairs,  he began  calling her name.  He came  to a  sliding stop
in  her  bedroom and  flicked  on  the light.  The  comforter  covered the  bed,
undisturbed. He saw the soiled clothes she had been wearing, tossed in a pile on
a chair. Her terry cloth robe hung on  the bathroom door and felt moist from her
shower. Her purse that  had been on the bureau was  now missing. Remembering her
car, he tore out  in a run back down the stairs and  through the kitchen where a
porte-cochere joined the house to the garage.

Her car was still inside, the hood cool. “Damn it, Rochelle, where are you?”
he asked aloud, his voice taking on a desperate quality. Had he risked the lives
of himself and five  men to bring her here, only to allow  Tobias to walk in and
take her away again?

He made his way back through the  house, and started turning out lights when the
phone began  ringing shrilly.  He snatched  it up before  the first  ring ended,
lifting it to his ear with marked impatience, wanting it to be Rochelle.

“Mikey, what are you doing there?”  Mabel asked. “I've been trying to call
you at your house. Sweetpea is here with me. She thought you might be worried if
you tried to call and she didn't answer.”





“Might be  worried!” he yelled  into the phone. “What  in the hell  is she
doing with  you?” Relief  flooded through  him, it  fueled by  adrenaline that
turned to boiling anger.

“Calm down, Mikey.  I can tell you are  half out of your mind, but  she is all
right and she is right here with me. Do you want to talk to her?”

“Hell no, I don't want to talk to  her. Just tell her to get herself ready and
I'll pick her up in ten minutes.”

“Now wait a minute, Mikey...” Mabel started,  but the phone went dead in her
hand.

Mabel looked at  Rochelle in bewilderment. “He's not just  upset, he's sort of
out of his mind, maybe  even a little crazy. He said he will  pick you up in ten
minutes.”

Rochelle,  just a  few minutes  ago, told  Mabel how  Michael and  his team  had
rescued her from Tobias's home. She also  told Mabel how Michael dropped her off
at the  Matheson house and rode  off in the taxi.  After trying not to  cry, and
barely managing to  keep her composure, she now shook  her head, her auburn-gold
hair flouncing about her shoulders defiantly.  “I won't go with him. He cannot
keep treating me  this way. I do not want  to see him. Just tell him  to go away
and leave me alone.”

Mabel looked  a bit sheepish  and helpless. “Now,  Sweetpea, if you  had heard
him, you would know he won't leave here  without you. You might as well get your
bag and be ready  because I have a feeling he'll carry you  out if you refuse to
go with him.”

“Like hell, he will! I'm sick of men dominating my life.”

“I think I might be inclined to agree with you.”

“I won't go with him. Mabel...” The imploring words, she was about to voice,
were cut short by  the ring of the doorbell. Then the  door sounded like someone
trying to break in as Michael's fist pounded against it.





Mabel  came to  her feet,  shaking her  head back  and forth,  expelling a  long
bewildered sigh. She pulled the door open, barely missing the crash of Michael's
fist as  he issued  another pounding  stroke toward  the door.  Fortunately, she
stepped back  just in  time to  avoid it.  Before Mabel  could say  anything, he
pushed past her, and came to a stop just inside the living room where he spotted
Rochelle sitting.

“Let's go!”  he commanded.  His face  was cast  in bronze,  portraying cold,
angry determination.

Rochelle squared  her shoulders and lifted  her chin. “No, I'm  not going with
you.”

“Rochelle, you  have pushed my  patience beyond limits.  I'm fed up  with your
foolishness.”

She pounced to her feet.

“My  foolishness!” she  screamed,  her  eyes glaring  at  him in  disbelief.
“Damn you, Michael!  Who was it that  dropped me off like a  piece of baggage?
You cannot treat me this way. I will not let you.

I've  lived in  hell for  five  years and  I won't  let  you put  me through  it
again.”

All the  anger seemed  to puff  out of him  in one  long shuddering  breath, his
shoulders slumping dejectedly, and he knew he was to blame for all of this.

Grasping  the back  of  a chair,  he  tried  to appeal  to  her. “Look,  let's
understand each other. You may think you are safe now, but Chandler will not let
this  pass. I  don't  know any  damn  man who  would look  the  other way  while
strangers come into his  home and abduct his wife. In brief, the  son of a bitch
will come after you again, and that means you have to take some precautions. All
I'm asking is that you  come home with me until we see how  all this is going to
play out.”





“If you're so concerned  about me and what Tobias will do, why  did you go off
and leave me as you did? I knew you were upset, and I hoped you might come in so
we could talk about it. Instead, you dumped  me and took off as if you could not
wait  to get  rid of  me. I  have feelings,  too, Michael,  in case  you haven't
noticed.”

Mabel stood quietly  in the background watching an emotional  drama unfurl while
the resolution slowly began spinning toward a peaceful draw.

“I know you have feelings, honey, and I respect them. I am sorry for the way I
have acted. It  isn't my choice to feel  this way. I don't know  what the hell's
wrong with my head.”

“It wasn't just this evening, Michael, but  that first night, too. Do you have
any idea how you made me feel, walking out on me like you did. The fact that you
admit you have a screwed up head is reason  enough why I am not going to go with
you. I will never put myself in the  position again of letting a man mistreat me
and dominate my  life. Neither will I take responsibility  for someone's jealous
rages. I've done nothing wrong, and I won't defend myself to you.”

“I guess I've made a terrible mess of everything,” he said contritely.

“Yes, you have, Michael. I refuse to go  with you. I don't want to be with you
until you your demons under control.”

“Rochelle, I admit  I've been a terrible  idiot, but I'm asking  you to please
come with me.”

Mabel could see that was her exit cue, so she turned and went up the stairs.

“I can't, Michael.”

“Can't or  won't?” he snapped,  beginning to pace.  “Don't do this  to us,
Chelle. I am asking you now to come with me. Don't do this to us.”





“If that's an ultimatum,  Michael, then I refuse. I would  also like to remind
you that I am  not doing anything to us. You did it  yourself.” She turned her
back on him. “Please go,” she said persuasively.

His hands and arms fell like dead weights, and his shoulders seemed to bend like
an aging man  as he stared at her  for a lengthy interval. “I hope  you can be
happy with the decision you've made,”

he said with deadly calm before dispatching himself out the front door.

The slamming of the door marked a  final sound that echoed with harsh reality in
Rochelle's ears.



TOBIAS WAS WALKING THE FLOOR in his hotel room in Columbia, a drink in one hand,
the phone  in the other  pressed to his ear.  “Has he returned  yet?” Tobias
barked  into the  phone. He  listened impatiently,  pacing forward  a couple  of
steps, and then  turning about to pace  over the same space. “I  have to leave
here.

There's been a major problem at home I  have to deal with,” he told the man on
the other end of the line.

He listened some more, and cursed agitatedly. “I know he told me to wait here,
but just how damn long does he expect me to wait?

I have obligations of my own.”

The voice at the other end became so  loud that Tobias moved the phone away from
his ear. “You stupid  son of a bitch, you'd best cool it!  Your fucking ass is
already in  hot water over the  Monroe Tatum situation.  If you fail to  get the
bastard off,  they will make  a deal with  him and fry  your ass along  with our
entire organization  in Miami. So  I am telling you  for the last  time; Sanchez
will be  back tomorrow. Go out  and find a broad  to occupy your time.  You have
nothing else to do but wait.”





The phone went dead  in Tobias's ear, and he slammed his phone  down with a loud
clang, strolling across the floor to begin pacing again.

There had been  no reason for Sanchez  to call him to Columbia  four days before
seeing him.  It was  the son of  a bitch's way  of letting  him know who  was in
charge. Tobias  had been  pacing the  whole four days,  not patient  at waiting.
After Dave called him with the message someone had abducted Rochelle, Tobias had
been antsy as hell to get back to Miami.

The bitch had pushed him too far this  time. He promised to bury her if she ever
tried to run  again, and he would keep  his promise when he found  her this next
time—and he  would find her! Gritting  his teeth, clamping his  jaws shut, and
balling his fists, he could only visualize the pleasure he would receive when he
put a gun to her head and watched her eyes as he blew half her skull away.

He opened  the door to  his room and  stomped out in  the hall, heading  for the
elevator. Downstairs, his eyes automatically  scanned the lobby before he headed
for the bar. He  looked over the patrons, seeing a dark haired  woman at the bar
alone. He walked over and sat on the stool next to her.

“Scotch and  soda, and  give the  lady what she  wants,” he  said, motioning
toward the woman's drink. The solid gold watch upon his wrist caught the woman's
eye, as did the large diamond on  his finger. He still hadn't bothered to shave,
at least,  nothing more than  the trimming the barber  did, and the  dark growth
mirrored how he felt, angry and dangerous.

The woman nodded her  thanks for the drink, and sent him  a grateful smile, then
reaching up pinched her fingers around a  tuff of beard and said, “Nice.” In
less  than five  minutes, Tobias  sloshed  down his  drink, took  her hand,  and
marched her to the elevators, and up to his room.





He spent the rest  of the night, off and on, pretending  the woman was Rochelle,
and banging the hell out of her. The next morning he slapped a couple of hundred
dollar bills against her palm and pushed her out the door.

He picked up the phone to see if Sanchez had returned.





Chapter Thirty-Eight


Rochelle returned to the Matheson house  the following day. With nothing else to
occupy her time,  she got busy vacuuming the carpets  and dusting the furniture.
She left the  house only once when  she went to purchase groceries.  The rest of
the time  she kept busy,  a sense of high  expectancy that Michael  might surely
call and have  his problems worked out  and his head on straight  again. No such
call came,  however, and as  the hours sped away  into another day,  she started
believing Michael would never call again. Don't do this to us, he had said. When
he walked out, his attitude sent a strong message of finality.

Maybe it is  best, she thought. Tobias  would eventually come for  her, and this
time she  was certain  he would follow  through on his  threat. If  Michael were
around, his life would be in jeopardy, too.

She did not want him involved, did not want any risks that might get him killed.
If Tobias killed her, then so be it. At least she would be out of her misery and
would never have to suffer his abuses again.

She thought of  packing up her things,  putting them in her  vehicle and driving
away to wherever the main highway took her.

That thought  kept playing across her  mind with some frequency  as she cleaned.
However, running away and  maybe having to run for the rest of  her life was too
depressing for further consideration.





Finally, she made a decision.

She would remain  where she was, and  when Tobias came for her,  she would force
him to end it once-and-for all. Life  had lost its resiliency for bouncing back.
There was  nothing to  bounce back  to anymore.  She just  wanted her  life with
Tobias over with, and  be spared further hell from him. She  wanted it over with
permanently.

“Its better  this way,” she  mumbled aloud, feeling  a kind of  numbness, as
though the universe had passed her by and she was a moving corpse.

When  she finished  cleaning the  downstairs, she  took the  vacuum cleaner  and
dusting cloths upstairs,  starting first in her bedroom, and  then moving to the
bath where she scrubbed  the shower tiles and polished the  glass doors. She had
never done  much cleaning previously, except  when she was a  teenager living at
home with her parents where it was her duty to clean her own room. She had never
had a desire to do cleaning, until now, when she was delighted to have something
to occupy the endless hours while she waited.

Waiting! That had suddenly become the future of her life, waiting for Tobias.

As  the  morning  moved  on  and   the  phone  only  rang  once—it  was  Mabel
calling—she  accepted  the fact  that  Michael  was  not  going to  call.  Her
depression grew until she no longer cared about anything. “Come on, Tobias,”
she murmured aloud to herself.

“Come on and get it over with.”

When she indicated her thoughts to Mabel, she got the scolding of her life.

“Like hell you say! I have heard of  fools in my life, but you are the biggest
one I have  ever known. If the  man had done to me  what he did to  you, I would
find a damn  gun and do my best to  blow his ugly head apart. I  thought you had
more guts than that, Sweetpea.





No  wonder Michael  walked away  from you.  He deserves  better than  that after
risking his life to  get you back. All your friends  deserve better.” She hung
up before Rochelle could answer, literally shaking with anger.

At first, Mabel's angry tirade only depressed Rochelle more.

She thought about leaving the security alarm  off, and the door unlocked to make
it easy for  Tobias to just walk in  and do the deed quickly.  However, she kept
thinking about what Mabel said, and how Tobias ruined her life. He likely killed
her parents,  had shot  Michael, and made  her life one  hell on  earth. Feeling
sorry for herself for  the wasted years, she broke down  and cried. Finally, she
was like a  dried up reservoir. Not  even the deep loneliness  for Michael could
bring more tears. She was tired of crying.

She was tired of living, too.

The memory of  her parents' deaths and  Michael's gunshot wound went  her into a
state of guilt.  She thought about what  Mabel said, and felt  more guilt. Would
her parents be proud  of her standing like a passive  victim while Tobias killed
her? She knew they would not, and she knew she did not want to die like that. If
she was going to  die, she wanted to do it fighting. Tobias  could kill her, and
very likely would, but  she would not make it easy on him.  Mabel was right. The
people who had befriended her deserved better.

She kept  the security alarm  set at  all times, and  all the doors  and windows
locked. She took  the gun from a  drawer where she had hid  it beneath clothing,
and  placed it  beneath  her pillow  in  the  event Tobias  somehow  got in  and
surprised her while  she slept. Once or  twice, she worried over  whether or not
she would be able  to use the gun if the need arose.  Remembering Michael on the
floor with blood  swimming beneath him angered and gave  her bravado, making her
believe she could do it. She had to; it was either him or her.





If Tobias killed  her, that would be that.  On the other hand, if  he decided to
take her back with him, she knew living with him again was beyond her endurance.
She would never let  that happen again, not even if it meant  turning the gun on
her self.

“Rochelle, she said aloud to herself,  “You have three choices: kill Tobias,
let him kill you, or kill yourself.”

He was stronger than she was, and the chance of her getting the upper hand would
be a miracle.

While she  cleaned, numerous  scenarios ran  through her mind  of how  she would
handle the situation when Tobias finally arrived.

Perhaps she could hide  behind a chair downstairs and wait for  him with the gun
ready in  her hand. Maybe she  could just lie beneath  the sheet on the  bed and
pretend to  be asleep while  the gun pointed toward  the door. There  were other
pre-conceived  ideas, but  she realized  such planning  was useless  considering
Tobias's actions would dictate the outcome of the entire fracas.

The gun beneath her  pillow was always at the foundation  of her thoughts. Would
it serve  to protect her? Would  she be able to  use it to protect  herself? She
thought about the quiet little  bedroom community surrounding her, it's populace
of people going about their work and daily lives with no thought of the perilous
situation Rochelle  felt certain  would happen beneath  their very  noses. These
gentle people with their simple lives would never come close to the kind of hell
she had known, was still anticipating with dread. The life she lived with Tobias
would seem  like fiction  to them, a  storybook tale such  as would  never touch
their lives or the family and friends  about them. She was different. Tobias had
made her different.

After cleaning  the shower, toilet,  and sink, she took  a damp towel  and began
wiping the  tiled floor  to remove  any film of  dust that  had gathered  in her
absence. She was wiping behind the toilet when a tile suddenly moved beneath the
towel.  She inspected  it, seeing  that the  grout around  its edges  had broken
loose. Carefully, she slid it back in place, thinking she should call someone to
repair it. She added that to her list of things to do.

She worked right on through noon, not bothering to take time for lunch since she
wasn't hungry. She was just finishing  vacuuming the last bedroom when the phone
rang and Mabel greeted her in a repenting tone.

“Sweetpea, I'm sorry I  blew my top, but I hope you  realize how precious life
is.”

Rochelle's emotions were never more sensitive, or tender, but she was determined
there  would be  no further  tears, and  she fought  them valiantly.  “I know,
Mabel.  Thanks for  setting me  straight. If  I must,  then I  will fight  until
there's no fight left in me. I won't make it easy for him.”

“Have  you considered  getting  out  of that  house,  perhaps going  somewhere
else?”

“I thought about it, was even tempted to do so after I realized Michael and me
were finished. However, wherever I go, he will keep looking until he finds me. I
don't  want to  spend my  life  running. I  will  take every  precaution and  do
whatever I  have to do,  but I've decided  not to run  anymore. I want  a normal
life, Mabel, and I'll never have that if I start running again.”

“Why don't you go to my house? You know you can stay there.”

“No, you don't know Tobias. He would  eventually find me no matter where I go.
I would never put  your life in any danger like that. I  might as well stay here
and face it. Otherwise, this problem with Tobias is never going away.”

“Sweetpea,  I don't  know what  to say.”  Mabel's voice  broke, and  she was
unable  to hide  the emotion  she was  feeling. To  detract from  her distraught
state, she said the first thing that popped in her mind.

“What have you been doing all day?”

“I've been cleaning all day. I'm just finishing up.”

“Have you had lunch?” Mabel asked, glancing at her watch.

“Nope, I wanted  to finish cleaning first.  If your store clerk  is there, you
can come have  lunch with me. I'll make  you a ham sandwich, and we  can cut the
apple pie I bought.”

“Sounds  good to  me,”  Mabel replied,  not  caring all  that  much for  the
sandwich or  the pie,  but she  felt a  need to  see Rochelle,  especially after
knowing that Michael's stubborn pride wouldn't allow him to do so.

Michael habitually had stopped by Mabel's  shop for the past three mornings, but
not once had he mentioned Rochelle's name.

Mabel knew his  visits were quests to  see if she would  volunteer anything. She
didn't. His lofty attitude needed taking down  a notch or two. Mabel made up her
mind he could  find out about Rochelle  first hand, or not find  out anything at
all; at least not from her.

Rochelle  had their  lunch ready  when  Mabel arrived.  Mabel was  very fond  of
Rochelle, and had some  idea of the suffering she had  gone through. Knowing how
depressed she  was, Mabel  tried to  be cheerful, sharing  tidbits of  gossip or
witticisms she had heard.

Rochelle laughed at Mabel's tales, but  the laughter never reached her eyes. Her
beautiful, brilliant green eyes were big dull pools of strain.

“So you've been cleaning?” Mabel said, looking around at how neat everything
looked. “You know Tillie would be glad to help you a few hours every week.”

“I needed  something to do. I  think I would go  a bit crazy if  I didn't find
something to occupy my time and mind.  It keeps me from thinking about Tobias so
much. I know he will come for me. It's just a matter of time.”





“Honey, the  man has to  be stopped. You  need something to  protect yourself,
maybe a gun.”

Rochelle let the subject  slide. She decided it was best that  no one knew about
the gun  she kept. It would  only cause unnecessary concern.  “Maybe the alarm
will warn me soon enough to call the police,” she replied.

Not comfortable with this discussion, she changed it. “Do you know someone who
can repair a loose bathroom tile?”

“Michael can,” Mabel said, arching a brow.

“No, not him,  I would never ask  him, not now.” They  finished the sandwich
and pie, so Rochelle stood up and took the dishes to the sink.

“Where is this tile? I am  surprised Michael hasn't already repaired it. While
you were gone, he just about lived over  here when he was away from the bank. He
was always  banging on something,  repairing this or that.  I don't know  how he
missed a loose tile.”

“It's in  a rather inconspicuous  spot behind the  toilet. I would  never have
noticed it if I hadn't been wiping the floor with a towel.”

“Let's take a  look at it,” Mabel  said, not all that interested  in a loose
bathroom tile, but it gave them something to do.

Rochelle led  the way  upstairs to  her bedroom. Mabel  stopped just  inside the
door,  her eyes  scanning the  interior. “I  can't believe  you sleep  in this
room,” she said.

Rochelle moved on toward  the bathroom. “It was either that  or live day after
day believing ghosts roamed around in here behind a closed door at night. It was
the only way I could prove to myself that there was nothing in here to be afraid
of.”

“Well,” Mabel sighed  disbelievingly with raised brows,  “that's about the
most original idea I've ever heard.”





Rochelle  knelt  on the  floor  next  to the  toilet.  Reaching  behind it,  she
touched the  tile, feeling  it move  beneath her fingers.  “It has  come loose
completely,” she said lifting it and handing it to Mabel.

“What's that?” Mabel  asked sharply, her eyes glued to  the place from which
Rochelle removed the tile.

“What's what?” Rochelle asked, seeing where  her eyes were staring. She bent
down lower and stretched her neck, trying to  gain a better view of the floor on
the backside  of the  toilet. “Why  there's a hole  there, and  something's in
it,” Rochelle cried, her hand already reaching to grasp whatever it was in the
hole.

“No!” Mabel  shouted. “Don't touch it.”  She had no idea  why she didn't
want Rochelle to  touch it, but she  did have an aversion to  reaching into dark
holes. “Can you see what it is?”

“The toilet throws  a shadow on it.  I can't tell. There's a  flashlight on my
dresser.”

Mabel ran for the flashlight and was  back in a couple of seconds. “Just don't
put  your hand  down there.  It could  contain  a snake,  a rat,  or just  about
anything.”

Just about  anything is what the  hole contained. Beneath the  tile, someone had
cut out  the flooring to form  a pocket between  the floor joists. Inside  was a
small brown book that looked like a diary,  and on top of it was a gun. Rochelle
raised her head, looking at Mabel in deep puzzlement.

“It's a gun. Why would someone put a gun in a place like this?”

“Oh my God!” Mabel exclaimed, drawing Rochelle up from the floor and pulling
her toward the bedroom.  Her face turned terribly white and  she looked like she
might actually pass out.

“Mabel, you look like you've seen a  ghost. Here, sit down in this chair. Tell
me what's wrong.”

“I have seen a ghost.  I would be willing to bet that is  the gun used to kill
Michael's father and stepmother.  The police never did find it,  and that is why
they were unable to discover who did it.

They charged Michael but all they had was circumstantial evidence and not enough
proof. Do you know this gun may very well contain the fingerprints of the person
who shot the Mathesons?”

Rochelle also went pale. “What will we do, Mabel?”

She looked at Rochelle, thinking. “We have to call the police.”

“But, Mabel…”

“I know what  you're thinking. It wasn't  Mikey. I would never  believe it was
Mikey, not in a hundred years. No one else in town believes it either.”

“But what if you're wrong?” Rochelle asked in a shaky voice.

She  knew anyone  was capable  of murder  if given  enough provocation,  real or
imagined.  She had  wished a  million times  that Tobias  was dead,  had thought
numerous times about the gun in his bedside stand, considering how easy it would
be to shoot him.

Hadn't she literally  made up her mind to  do just that if he came  for her? She
was determined to kill him if necessary to avoid going back to Miami with him.

“Sweetpea, if you know him well enough  to love him, then you know he couldn't
have hurt his father and Tina.”

“Mabel, let's just think this through. My God, this is startling evidence that
can put someone away  for the rest of their life; maybe even  send them to their
death. I know as  well as anyone that a person is capable  of killing another. I
have thought about it  hundreds of times myself. I don't think  it would be hard
to do if a person is pressed enough.”

“It wasn't  Mikey. I can  understand you wanting  to kill Tobias,  but Michael
loved his father. He would never have done anything to hurt him. I know that, as
well as  I know my  own name. Anyway,  he has already  been tried and  found not
guilty. They  can't try him  again, but something  like this could  ruin him.”
Strong, generous hearted Mabel burst into tears at the damnable thought Rochelle
suggested. “Dear God, it can't be him,” she muttered more to herself than to
Rochelle.

“Then if you are that sure, call the  police. Let's get it over and done with,
but I pray to God you're right.”

“I know Mikey didn't  do it. I'd bet my life on it.”  She went to the phone,
and even as sure as she felt, there was still that seed of doubt that caused her
to lift the  phone reluctantly. She pushed the buttons,  listening until someone
answered.  “This is  Mabel  Driscoll. I  need to  talk  to Detective  Benjamin
Norton.”

Rochelle was  literally shaking  all over,  tension tightening  in her  neck and
shoulders over the possibility of what they might learn.

“Detective Norton, I'm  out at the Matheson house. I  think there is something
here you'll be interested in seeing. We've  found the gun.” Mabel could hear a
sharp intake of air, and a breathy excitement over the news.

“Who else is with you?” he asked.

“Rochelle Chandler, the lady renting the house from Michael.”

“Don't touch anything. I'll be right there,” he said, hanging up the phone.





Chapter Thirty-Nine


Mabel slowly put the  phone back on the hook, the seed  of doubt still intruding
upon the  firm belief  that Michael  was innocent.  He had  to be  innocent, she
thought.  Otherwise, it  would  be  none other  than  herself  who was  bringing
disaster to his doorstep.

The thought  suddenly occurred to  her that perhaps  she should have  called him
first. Should! Should!  Should! The word played viciously across  her mind. Yes,
that is what she  should have done, but the thought never  occurred to her prior
to calling the police.

Mabel turned  her back, and started  downstairs to meet the  detective. Rochelle
took her  gun from beneath the  pillow, put it  in a bottom drawer  beneath some
clothing, and then she  sat down in a chair to wait, praying  all the while that
Mabel was right about Michael.

In a few minutes, police cars blazed  a siren-screaming trail across town to the
Matheson house.  As expected, and  as in  most situations requiring  the police,
people began to  gather out front, wondering what shattering  event had befallen
the Matheson house this time. The intrigue of the house intensified after Tobias
had shot  Michael, and after  Rochelle's abduction.  Now it would  offer another
reason for curious spectators.

Mrs. Newland, the neighbor who lived  across the street from the Matheson house,
picked up  her phone and dialed  the bank. “I  need to speak to  Mr. Matheson,
please. Tell him this is Mrs. Newland.”

She waited until Michael's voice came over the line.

“Michael, I don't know what's happening,  but the street is filled with police
cars in front of your father's house.”

Michael was temporarily  stunned as if someone had slammed  a boulder across his
skull. When  he could force  words from his mouth,  he said, “Thank  you, Mrs.
Newland. I'll be right there.”

He hung up  the phone and ran from  the bank to his car, all  the bank employees
and the customers turning to stare at his disappearing back.

In his  car, Michael  could only  conclude the inevitable.  Tobias had  come for
Rochelle. Maybe he had hurt her, even killed  her. His heart fell like a ball of
lead in his chest as he broke every  speed limit getting to the house. He cursed
himself continually for not taking greater precautions to protect her. He should
have known  Tobias would come after  her. God, what  was wrong with him  that he
could leave her there alone, unprotected?

The street in front of the house flaunted several police cars, and farther down,
civilian cars  clogged the other  parking spaces for  at least two  blocks away.
Pedestrians were busy quizzing everyone else to determine what had happened.

Michael  pulled into  Mrs.  Newland's  driveway, and  then  sprinted across  the
street, his  feet slowing  almost reluctantly  just before he  got to  the front
door, frightened out of his mind at what he was going to encounter.

A couple  of police officers were  on the lawn,  and another stood guard  at the
door.  Michael started  past the  one  at the  door.  “Mike, you  can't go  in
there,” Kendrick Evans yelled, trying to hold him back.

“Like hell I can't. Get out of my way, Kendrick,” he shouted and pushed past
him. Inside on the foyer, he stopped when he heard voices in the living room. He
saw Mabel and rushed to her. “Where is she, Mabel?” he demanded anxiously.

“She's  upstairs, Mikey,”  Mabel answered  solemnly. Then  realizing Michael
thought something  had happened to  Rochelle, she  tried to stop  him. “Mikey,
she's okay,”  she called  after him,  but he  was already  up the  stairs, not
hearing Mabel.

Reaching the door to  her bedroom Michael stopped just inside  the door, a blast
of air  expelled noisily from his  lungs when he  saw her sitting in  the chair.
“Chelle...”  he said,  stalking across  the  room to  her. Detective  Norton
kneeled in front of her asking questions.

Rochelle  came  to  her  feet,   nearly  knocking  Detective  Norton  backwards.
“Michael?”

“Are  you all  right?” he  asked, putting  his arms  about her.  “What has
happened here?” he demanded of Norton.





“I'm  all right,  Michael. Nothing  has  happened. I  found a  gun, and  Mabel
thought we should call the police.”

“A gun? What gun?” he asked, unable to focus on anything other than the fact
that Rochelle was  all right. Light-headed exhilaration flooded  and drowned his
fear when  he realized  she was safe.  He would never  have forgiven  himself if
something had happened to her.

“Take it easy, Mike,” Detective Norton said. There is a gun in a hole behind
the toilet. We need to get pictures before we remove it.

We think this is the gun that killed your father and stepmother.”

“Jesus,  why in  the hell  didn't  someone call  me? I  thought something  had
happened to  Rochelle.” He  still held  Rochelle in his  arms, so  tightly she
could barely breathe,  his fingers tangled in the auburn-gold  curls at the nape
of her neck, pressing all of her against him.

“Let's all  go downstairs  to the  living room so  the guys  can do  their job
here,” Detective Norton said, taking charge.

“Where is this gun you found?” Michael asked Rochelle.

“It's in the bathroom behind the toilet in a hole beneath a tile,”

Rochelle explained.

“You're kidding!” Michael  was looking at Norton.  “Your department turned
this damn place upside  down looking for a gun and it was  here all the time.”
He stepped over to the bathroom door to get a peek. He shook his head.

“Come on, Mike. We have  to clear out the room so my team  can get in here and
do their job,” Norton said.

“We're right behind you,” Michael said, hanging back until Norton was out of
the room. “Chelle, we have to talk,” he said in a hoarse, agitated whisper

He was suddenly  serious, his expression so coldly severe  that Rochelle's heart
lurched up to her throat. She swallowed, and tried to force the lump down again,
everything inside  her screaming against  the possibility of what  Michael might
tell her about the gun. He was  agitated, nervous, and he was obviously planning
to tell her something she did not want to hear. He escorted her down the stairs,
a frown marring the smooth texture of his forehead.

When Mabel saw him this time, fear mocked her belief of his innocence. Something
about  his  look was  markedly  suspicious,  like  dejected resignation  to  the
obvious. His arm stayed  around Rochelle as if joined by flesh,  and when he sat
down on the sofa,  he pulled her down with him, still not  willing to remove his
arm from about her.

“Mike, this could  mark the end of  our investigation. We'll send  the gun and
the  diary to  the  lab for  fingerprinting,  and hopefully  we'll  get what  we
need,” Norton said after taking a comfortable seat on the sofa.

“What diary?” He looked extremely puzzled. “I'm not aware of any diary.”

Mabel looked at him pityingly, and wondered  if he was thinking what she was. If
it  turned out  his name  appeared  derogatorily in  that diary,  it could  pose
damaging  evidence easily  capable of  destroying his  life. Even  if the  court
couldn't try him again, the newspapers would run story after story until Michael
wouldn't be able to find a hole deep  enough to hide in to escape their constant
invasion of his life.

“The diary belonged to Mrs. Matheson. No one has read it yet because we didn't
want to take a chance on smudging  the fingerprints. We should know something in
a day or  two.” Detective Norton was extremely happy  about the find. Locating
the gun and diary  was the break they needed. “Mike, are  you all right?” he
asked, upon seeing that Michael was as pale as a ghost.





“I'm fine,” he  said. “I just hope the next  time there's another disaster
in this damn house someone will have the good sense to call me.”

Mabel and Rochelle both  sighed and hoped Michael's odd demeanor  had more to do
with his fear for Rochelle, than with the finding of the gun and diary.

Norton asked  Rochelle some  more questions  about how  she discovered  the hole
beneath the tile. Then he asked Michael if he knew the hole was there?

“Hell no, I didn't  know it was there!” he exclaimed,  sending Norton a look
of  disbelief. “Whoever  searched the  house after  the deaths  of my  dad and
stepmother was damn well incompetent. The  evidence was right here all the time,
which could have saved me all the hell you guys and the court put me through.”

Norton looked guilty. “I'm sorry about that, Michael. Those things happen.”

“Yeah, well it damn well shouldn't happen if your department did its job.”

The crime scene people finished upstairs and were getting ready to leave. Norton
stood. “I think we have everything we need here.

We will clear out now and let you folks  get back to what you were doing. It was
nice meeting you, Mrs. Chandler.”

Within a few  minutes the police cars  vanished, the street cleared,  and only a
few stray neighbors remained on the sidewalk, still hoping for some news on what
had occurred inside the house.

Michael finally withdrew  his arm from around Rochelle and  stood up. He reached
out, and took Mabel's hand, pulling her to her feet. “Mabel, I need to talk to
Rochelle, if you don't mind.”

“I don't mind, Mikey. Is everything all right with you?” she inquired on the
way to the door, remembering to grab her purse from a nearby table.





“Yes, it  is now, but I  think I almost had  a heart attack when  Mrs. Newland
across the  street called and  told me the police  were here. Mabel,  you should
have called me. I was out of my mind,” he said softly.

“I'm sorry, Mikey.”  She glanced back toward the living  room where Rochelle
waited. “Go easy with  her. We talked the other night and  from the little she
told me, that husband has put her through hellfire.”

Michael nodded his head, kissed her cheek, and closed the door behind her.

Rochelle watched Michael  walk back through the living room,  his dark blue suit
fitting him with tailored perfection. On the surface, he looked so professional,
so in control and authoritative, so like a  man who knew what he wanted; but did
he really? Did anyone ever really know what he or she truly wanted?

She  could tell  he had  spent some  time in  the sun  while she  was away.  His
face  was much  darker  and his  dark  hair seemed  slightly  lighter as  though
sun-bleached.  He was  clean-shaven looking  like an  executive in  his business
suit. His straight nose, his square chin  and strong jaws painted a picture of a
flawlessly handsome man. Power and  gentleness were the characteristics Rochelle
saw in him just then, a rare combination.

She recalled the times he held her,  touched her, made love to her, their bodies
pressed together as one, his lips enticing and firing her blood with passion and
yearning. His  hands, that wore  a roughness from the  carpentry he did,  were a
dark tan with black glinting hairs along the knuckles.

His long slender fingers raked through his  hair as he came toward her, lowering
himself  on  the  sofa beside  her.  At  first,  she  had feared  his  tormented
expression had something to do with the  gun found in the bathroom. Now she knew
it was  not. Just looking at  him, she knew what  he would suggest, and  she was
certain what her answer would be.

He sat quietly beside her several seconds before he spoke.

Finally, he said, “Rochelle, I don't want you to stay here any longer.”

Misunderstanding his  meaning, she  jerked her  head up and  looked at  him, her
expression a  mixture of hurt and  defiance. “You gave me  a verbal agreement,
Michael. My rent  was paid for six months  with the promise you would  sell if I
still wanted to buy,” she reminded him tersely.

He shook his head.  “It isn't that I don't want you here.  I am afraid for you
to stay here. This will be the first place Tobias will come to. Leaving you here
alone is too  risky. I could only  think the worst had happened  when I received
that  phone call  from the  neighbor across  the street.  I would  never forgive
myself if  something happened to  you after my  having brought you  here.” His
eyes bore  into hers beseechingly, needing  her to understand his  position, his
feelings.

Silence fell upon his words a few seconds, and when Rochelle glanced toward him,
he  looked as  if  he would  actually  laugh—but his  eyes  weren't marked  by
amusement. It was irony.

“Do you know,” he  began, “I should be shouting with joy  that the gun was
found and  now the  police can find  who murdered my  father and  Tina. However,
after being worried out  of my mind that something had happened  to you, I could
care  less  about  the damn  gun.  I  only  care  about you,  Chelle,  and  feel
responsible for you.”

He cared about her. He had held her in his arms, made love to her, and whispered
declarations of  love on  that awful  day Tobias had  abducted her.  Since then,
there had been nothing but jealousy and  anger. Now, he had never seemed farther
beyond  her reach.  He was  a stranger,  concerned only  with a  strong need  to
protect—more than likely just to spare his guilt, Rochelle thought accusingly.

“Is that  how you feel,  Michael? Is it  just responsibility you  feel?” she
asked gently, a deep sadness at all they had known and lost.

“Of course, I feel  responsibility. Do you think I want  anything to happen to
you?”  He was  honestly  frustrated at  her efforts  to  discourage his  every
attempt to communicate with her.

Rochelle could still see the anger despite all his other feelings.

He still blamed her for having slept  with Tobias, and that disturbed her beyond
anything he could have said or done. “Then let me relieve your mind. I absolve
you of all responsibility for me. There is  no need for you to worry any longer.
From here on out just consider me  no more than someone renting your house. That
is all that is between us anyway.”

His  jaw clamped  down  solidly and  the  pulse at  his  throat began  throbbing
furiously.  He fought  for control,  vetoing the  desire to  sling her  over his
shoulder and march out with her. “Rochelle, I don't want to argue. I just want
to know you are safe. Mabel would be glad to have you stay with her.”

“I'm not leaving here, Michael. You cannot make me. We have a deal.”

He jumped up and began pacing the floor. “Then let's go to the police, explain
your situation, and ask them to keep an eye on the house.”

If he had put his arms about her just  once the way he did upstairs when he came
racing up there filled  with fear for her, he could have gotten  her to do about
anything he wanted,  Rochelle thought. Unfortunately, though, he  didn't put his
arms about her.

There was  no affection  at all  in his expression.  His look  was one  of sheer
impatience and growing irritation.





She pushed herself from the sofa, her shoulders squared, her head held tall, and
she  never  looked more  in  control,  nor  felt  more disheartened  and  alone.
“There's no reason to  go to the police. They would drive  by every two hours,
and anything could happen  in between that length of time.  The next time Tobias
comes for me,  I will deal with him.  I won't risk your life  again like before.
And I promise you I will never go back with him again.”

“What is that  supposed to mean?” he demanded tiredly,  the thought crossing
his mind again that he'd like to pick her up and carry her somewhere to safety.

“It means  I will deal  with Tobias.” She was  making a brave  stand against
Michael, but she hoped he would go.  Her strength was weakening. She didn't know
how much longer she could defy him.

Pushing his coat  back on his hips,  he pushed his hands deep  into his pockets.
“Rochelle, what is it you want of me?”

“What kind of question is that? You asked  me that on the plane, you know. Why
are you asking  it again? I don't want  anything from you, Michael. I  owe you a
great deal  of thanks for  all you've  done for me,  but there's nothing  else I
expect, and nothing more you can do.”

“That is not exactly what I was referring to.”

“Then I don't know what it is  you're talking about.” She turned her back on
him. “Now if you'll excuse me, I do have something I have to take care of.”

“Damn you!” Michael cursed, grabbing her arm and swinging her around to face
him. “Why won't you listen? You know that by staying here you are only setting
yourself up for that son of a bitch.

All I'm asking is for you to stay with Mabel a couple of weeks until we see what
Tobias has in mind?”

“Michael, you're hurting  my arm,” Rochelle cried, trying to  wrench free of
his grasp.





He  released his  hold,  and let  her arm  drop,  looking terribly  exasperated.
“Won't you please do what I ask?”

“I can't,  Michael. I am  through running  from Tobias. I  do not want  to run
anymore. I do  not want to hide anymore,  and I do not want to  live with Tobias
anymore. Neither will I put Mabel in  jeopardy the way you were when Tobias shot
you. I have to handle this in my own way.”

He looked at her in dismay, his face pale with rage and anxiety.

A grim tautness  settled across his features, offsetting a  ravaged harshness in
his eyes.  Without another word,  he spun about and  headed for the  front door,
slamming it loudly behind him.

Rochelle stood  there for several  minutes, her  small nostrils flaring  with as
much anger as Michael must feel. When  she calmed herself, she set the alarm and
went upstairs, put the gun beneath her pillow again, and then called Remy.

“Rochelle, where  are you? I  kept calling the  house. The guards,  or whoever
they were, kept  telling me you couldn't come  to the phone. I had  no idea what
had happened to you. Are you all right?”

“I'm fine, Remy, and thank you for all you've done. I'm in Montana.”

“I'm so  happy you  called. I'm also  glad you're away  from Miami  right now.
Things are really  going crazy here. There have been  numerous arrests of people
associated with  Mr. Chandler.  The papers  are full  of it.  Word is  the State
Attorney's Office is offering deals for  those arrested to turn state's evidence
against your husband.

They haven't arrested him, but newscasts say that an arrest is imminent.”

“Do you know if he's back in the city?”

“I don't think he is. I recall  reading something in the paper about him being
out of the country. But how are things with you?”





“I'm okay. Remy, you've been a good friend,  and I want you to know how much I
appreciate all you've done.”

“It was nothing. Give me your phone  number and address and I'll call you with
anything I learn or send you newspaper clippings.”

Rochelle gave her  the number and address.  “If you learn that  Tobias is back
from Columbia, will you please call right away?”

“You know I will, and do keep in touch with me.”

Rochelle went to bed  with a novel, a habit that often put  her soundly to sleep
after an hour or so. That was not the case this night.

She tired of the novel and put it  aside and then lay staring up at the ceiling,
wondering if  Tobias would  come for  her this  night. With  a gesture  that had
become habitual, she reached  beneath her pillow to touch the  cold metal of the
gun. She  was surprised at her  state of calm. She  was anxious to have  it over
with, but she miraculously felt devoid of fear. She no longer feared what Tobias
might do to her. If he killed her, it would finally release her from any further
threat of him. To be free was the ultimate goal she sought, one way or another.

The  night  crept  on  with  endless slowness.  Every  noise  and  creak  keened
Rochelle's ears, and  she listened for the  next creak or a foot  grating on the
stair steps. Near  midnight, she turned out  the light, and tried  to sleep. She
dozed fitfully, woke, looked  at the clock, then dozed some  more, a routine she
would follow for another hour until she eventually drifted into deep sleep.

About  two o'clock,  the phone  rang shrilly.  Rochelle opened  her heavy  lids,
feeling drugged by lingering drowsiness. She picked up the phone.

“Hello,” she murmured  groggily. There was no answer, only  breathing on the
other  end. Her  eyes opened  wider. She  listened attentively.  “Hello, who's
there?” she snapped irritably. Still no  answer, and after a minute, the phone
went dead.





Rochelle put the handset back down, turned on  the light, and sat on the edge of
the bed,  her toes  digging into  the carpet. The  ringing of  the phone  left a
startling  effect upon  her  nerves  after awakening  from  a  sound sleep.  The
butterflies in  her stomach  woke, and fear  was no longer  an illusive  bird in
flight. It was perilous terror incited  by threatened danger. She felt her hands
trembling, and when she held them out in  front of her she became aware that not
only were  her hands  shaking, but  so was  her whole  body. For  assurance, she
reached beneath the pillow again and touched hard, cold steel.

Her mouth felt dry like cotton, so she slid off the bed and went to the bathroom
where she filled a glass with water  and drank thirstily. Tired and still groggy
with sleep, she went back to bed and  turned out the light, mindful now that the
call could have been Tobias's way of ascertaining her whereabouts. Determined to
stay awake, she  kept her eyes open  in the darkened room, never  aware when her
lids drooped sluggishly and closed. She slept soundly.

She woke with a start the next morning as light crept into the windows, lighting
up the  room. She  felt terrible  as if she  nursed a  drunken hangover.  A dull
headache capped  her head. After  going to the bathroom  and taking a  couple of
aspirin, she went back  to bed, intending to sleep for  another couple of hours.
The ringing of the doorbell downstairs stopped that. Adrenaline shot through her
like a bullet, and her heart began pounding wildly.

Tossing her legs  off the side of the  bed, her feet touched the  carpet and she
pushed herself  to a standing position,  ever mindful that the  next few minutes
could  mark her  final days  on earth.  She donned  a robe  and with  purposeful
slowness, ambled downstairs.

The doorbell  rang again while  she turned off the  alarm. She opened  the door,
expecting  to see  Tobias standing  before her.  The need  to get  it over  with
quickly was an urgent thought now. She had resigned herself to the inevitable.





“Damn it, Rochelle, you didn't even bother  asking who was out here! Don't you
believe in taking at least some precautions?”

“I knew it wasn't  Tobias, Michael,” she lied. “He would  never show up in
broad daylight. That's not his style. What do you want?”

“You look  like hell,” he growled.  He shoved his hands  inside his pockets,
unaware that he looked  like hell, too. There was a white  line about his mouth,
and his face seemed stretched tightly with gaunt, pale skin.

“Thanks,  I feel  about like  that, too.”  Her heart  had slowed  down to  a
marching beat, and she clasped her hands together to hide the trembling.

“May  I come  in?” he  asked,  pushing past  her. “Didn't  you sleep  last
night?”

Rochelle stood by the door, turning as  she watched Michael move past her toward
the entrance off the foyer to the living room.

“Won't you  come in,  Michael?” she remarked  sarcastically. She  shoved the
door closed.

“I'm in, thank  you,” he shot back  at her. He looked at  her disheveled and
tangled mane of auburn-gold hair that lent an impression of wildness to her soft
facial features. Even drugged by sleep, with her hair in disarray, she was still
the most  beautiful woman  he had  ever seen,  and every  bridled bit  of desire
inside of him longed to take her in his arms and smother her face with kisses.

Pride would not allow that. They were at a standoff, and neither was prepared to
bridge the gap. With every encounter, he saw her slipping farther away from him,
and he still refused to make it right.

He  had tried,  over at  Mabel's,  but she  had  thwarted his  efforts. Now,  he
decided, it was up to her.

“Michael,  what do  you want?”  she asked  softly, the  desire to  do battle
quickly disintegrating as she dropped onto  the sofa in the living room, totally
drained of  energy. Now that  the surge  of adrenaline started  dissipating, the
grogginess from  disturbed sleep weighed heavily  upon her. She lifted  her bare
feet and propped them  on the coffee table, her robe falling  away from her long
shapely legs to expose smooth creamy flesh halfway up her thighs.

Michael's  eyes danced  over her  hungrily, and  he purposely  looked away,  not
willing to lose  his easily betrayed control  when he was in  her presence. “I
only wanted to see if you were all  right. Now that I've seen you are, I suppose
I'd better go.” He started toward the door.

“By the way,” he  said stopping and turning toward her  again. “I spoke to
the police  chief, and he'll have  an unmarked car come  by on the hour.  If you
have a problem, turn on the outside light.”

God, he hated the way his voice sounded when he spoke to her.

He was  angry, and  every word  he said echoed  that anger.  He sounded  like an
irate, disillusioned and cuckolded lover, and he knew she really did not deserve
that kind of treatment.  Yet, for the life of him, he could  not seem to put his
rebellious feelings aside even when he yearned  just to take her in his arms and
hold her. He went out the door, not bothering to look back or say goodbye.

Completely exhausted  from her  restless night, and  more discouraged  than ever
with Michael, Rochelle went straight upstairs to bed.





Chapter Forty


It was  nearly noon. Rochelle  finally slept  soundly after tossing  and turning
with great agitation. Now, her mind  played dream scenes of flowing water, green
lily pads floating on top, and ducks swimming about; the most pleasant dream she
could remember having in months. In her dream, her long red hair caught the wind
and blew across  her mouth. She pushed  it aside, but the sensation  of the hair
continuing to be across her mouth made her struggle awake.

The hot stinging bite  of a hand slashing across her cheek  startled her and her
eyes flew  open. An electrical  shock raced through  her. Her lids  stretched in
fright  at the  discovery of  the  diabolical face  hovering above  her, a  face
corrupted and twisted with hate and vengeance.

The  black  beard  covering his  lower  face  and  jaws  left him  looking  more
threatening and  dangerous than  ever. He  smelled sweaty as  though he  had not
bathed in  days, and his wrinkled  clothing gave further evidence  to that fact.
Likely avoiding Miami  like the plague after learning about  the warrant for his
arrest; he came straight to Montana from  his Colombia trip. Being a hunted man,
he knew he had nothing to lose.  Killing Rochelle would give him great pleasure,
especially in view of  the fact he was likely destined to spend  the rest of his
life in prison, at the least, with Monroe Tatum's testimony against him.

Rochelle had expected the security alarm  to ring with his entrance, had counted
on it to  wake her, to give her  time to take action in  defending herself. Yet,
the alarm had not gone off. How could he have gotten in without it waking her?

Then like lightning, her stupidity dawned upon her. Michael had gone out and she
forgot to set the  alarm. She hadn't even locked the front  door. All Tobias had
to do was walk right in.

“You dumb fucking bitch!  Did you really think you could  get away from me?”
His gray eyes, now looking nearly black with venom, drove into her like nails as
he slammed a fist against her jaw.  Rochelle was certain the sound she heard was
shattering bone.

Another  crash of  his fist  caught her  forehead and  eye, and  immediately her
eyelid puffed up, blurring and impairing her vision.





Fear rose up in  her like a giant hand clutching at her  heart, it so strong she
could taste it, could smell it.

“Where's  the mother  fucker who  brought you  here?” Tobias  demanded. “I
should have killed that son of a bitch the  first time I saw him. He won't get a
second chance. I will  bury that bastard before I leave here  today. Where can I
find him?” he demanded, grabbing her hair and giving it a mighty jerk.

Rochelle screamed  in pain, then breathing  in shallow breaths, she  made a poor
attempt  to reason  with him.  “Tobias,  you've got  to listen  to me,”  she
implored.

“Shut  your  whoring  goddamned  mouth!”  he roared,  and  his  hand  struck
violently against her face. Blood poured from the corner of her mouth.

The pain shot  through her with such  force she was certain she  might black out
any minute. However, the instinct for survival kicked in, and she willed herself
to remain  conscious. Tobias had not  come to take  her with him this  time. The
warning signs of a man completely out of  control were all apparent. He was in a
rage that left the outcome of her life highly uncertain.

Suddenly, the thought hit  her that she didn't want to die.  She wanted to live,
wanted a chance to make amends with Michael; wanted to feel his arms holding her
just one more time.  Fear clung to her senses, and  she considered the desperate
choices she now faced: to kill Tobias, or let him kill her.

How could she  overpower this man? How  could she kill him before  he could kill
her? She  forced her good eye  to remain open, and  she saw him waving  a gun in
front of her face, touching it to her temple, his finger seeming to tighten upon
the trigger. She was certain she was going to die.

She wanted to grab for  the gun and try to shoot him, but  she knew there was no
way she could gain the gun and shoot Tobias before he took the first shot. To go
for the gun would give away her only means of protection and she would be at his
mercy then,  would surely die without  a solitary chance to  defend herself. She
had to think, had to figure a strategy, look for an opportunity.

With an effort, she began inching her  hand upward trying to ease it beneath the
pillow where her  gun was, but then her nearly  unconscious concentration became
diverted by Tobias forcibly ripping her gown from her body, the fabric shredding
in tattered remnants. His eyes scorched  over her tense flesh, his desire rising
with hungry  insistence causing  him to  render to  the ultimate  brutality that
could drive his need to maddening heights.

“Don't  do this,  Tobias.  Please  don't do  this,”  she  implored, but  his
response was another hard crash of his palm against her face.

Her nose ached like splinters sticking in  it, and a stream of blood rolled down
on her lips  and flowed to the  corners of her mouth, finally  spilling down her
chin. She kept her mouth closed, seeing  that her pleas had a negative effect on
Tobias and her voice only fueled his rage.

Tobias threw the tattered  gown away from her. As he had  done hundreds of times
before, he ran  his hand all over  her flesh, cupping her  breasts, watching her
expression  that was  nearly grotesque  now with  her swollen  face and  eye. He
wanted her, and he would take her this last time. Then it would be over.

The thought of killing her when he  finished fucking her was an aphrodisiac that
spurred him  on with raging madness.  He had come to  a place in life  where few
things mattered. Knowing  there was a warrant  out for his arrest  in Miami left
little reason to  care about anything. The  thought of spending the  rest of his
life in  prison left no resistance  to killing Rochelle. She  disobeyed him when
she ran away the  first time. Now, she had betrayed him with  the son of a bitch
who invaded his  home. Killing her was  the only thing that would  ease the rage
boiling inside him.

With the gun  aimed at her temple, he  used his other hand to undo  his belt. He
pulled his pants  down with his under  shorts. He seemed to  be purposely taking
his time, enjoying the fear growing in her one good eye. The fear seemed to ooze
out of that  eye and wash across  her face in waves, leaving  her once beautiful
features contorted  and deformed. He  wanted her to  scream, needed to  hear her
scream, and he was determined to have  that one last pleasure before he blew her
away.

When he was naked except for his shirt and socks, he pushed his knee between her
thighs, spreading  them, taking  time to  memorize every line  and curve  of her
creamy body. The bright  patch of her woman's mound that  had drawn his passions
hundreds  of times  over  the past  years  sent his  manhood  screaming for  the
enjoyment possible only with her.

As the gun scraped across her temple, Rochelle knew she was going to die, and if
she had to  die, there was one thing  she had to know. Even  though Tobias would
probably hit her again,  she had to ask. “Tobias, I know  you're going to kill
me, so all I ask  is that you tell me just one thing before  I die. Did you kill
my parents?”

She turned  her face as  best she  could away from  him, squeezing her  good eye
closed as she waited  for his blow; but mercifully, it  didn't come. Instead, he
threw back his head  and let out a guffaw of laughter filled  with so much venom
that it shattered  the silence of the  room, bouncing off the walls  in an awful
echo. It was the sound of a mad man, someone totally out of his mind.

“You were always such a naïve and stupid little fool. You believed anything I
wanted  you to  believe. Your  father was  the biggest  fool of  all though.  He
thought he could come up against me.

I warned the son of a bitch. I told him to back off, but he went out and hired a
private detective  to build a dirt  file on me. That  son of a bitch  died happy
with an overdose. I didn't mean for your mother to get it, but she just happened
to be in the right place at the wrong time.”

It came as  no shock to Rochelle. It  is what she suspected. Yet,  the realty of
certainty churned hate inside her. “Why me, Tobias?

Why did you want me when you obviously had a choice of many women?”

“You had  something I  wanted, baby, and  it was between  your legs.  You were
unassuming—at first—like  a kid  that didn't  need much  to keep  you happy,
except shopping sprees. I liked fucking you,  and that's about all you were good
for.”

“How can you be  so corrupt and evil?” she moaned  through the pain sheeting
and throbbing across her entire face.

“You're calling me evil, my little bitch?  I gave you everything you wanted. I
kept you in some of the most expensive clothes and jewels money can buy. I never
heard you complain about those.”

“I had  nothing else to do,  Tobias, but shop. For  five years, you made  me a
prisoner, and  kept me  locked away  in that house.  You didn't  allow me  to go
anywhere, unless I was with you or guarded by one of your men. I hated it—just
like  I hate  you.” she  spat out  the last  sentence, bloody  saliva spraying
Tobias's face.

He stuck the gun to the side of her head and gritted his teeth.

“Keep up your chatter baby, and I'll pop you right now.”

“Just do what you're going to do to me, Tobias, and get it over with. You will
be doing me a favor. I simply ask that you make the first shot count. Don't make
me suffer.”

He  laughed a  taunting  laugh that  clearly demonstrated  his  power over  her.
“Don't be  in such a rush,  baby. You have to  make daddy happy just  one more
time.





He was holding his manhood in his hand, getting ready to stab her dry canal with
it. She put her  hands against his chest and pushed, wishing  he would just kill
her instead  of putting her through  this last degradation. Her  resistance drew
another fist against the side of her head that caused everything to go black all
at once. Her good eye closed and her  head lolled to one side and she could feel
herself sliding into dark oblivion.

Seeing  her eyes  closed in  defeat, resignation,  and near  unconsciousness, he
slapped her again,  not as hard this  time, letting his hand  swing lightly from
side to  side, just enough to  jar her awake. “Don't  you pass out on  me, you
bitch. I want you to  feel every bit of me in you, and I want  it to be the last
thing that will ever cross that brain of yours. Open your fucking eyes!”

Forcing her one good eye open with what little strength she still possessed, she
stared, watching the  rage on his face,  the hate that was eating  him alive and
turning him into a wild animal intent upon consuming its prey.

Then with animalistic ferociousness, he plunged  into her with such reckless and
violent force that the scream he craved  shot from her mouth in a blood-curdling
gurgle. He sexually pounded her as never before, his violence driven by the need
to make her pay while she was still alive to feel his retribution.

She laid there unable to move, choking  on her screams, his weight pressing down
upon her, and his brutal thrusts tearing her up inside.

Pumping in and out of her, he didn't  have long to wait for the rising heat that
blinded  him, sending  his  body  shooting out  raging  wild  fire and  bursting
tensions that  tightened then  released in his  groin and in  his brain.  At the
instant  of his  release,  his  eyes shut  tightly  as he  felt  the  rise of  a
shuddering climax  crashing over him,  followed by violent, satisfying  jerks of
passionate release.





Barely conscious  now, but seeing  this as the only  chance she might  ever have
again, she made  the most desperate choice  of her life. It would  be Tobias and
not her.  When his  eyes closed during  his climatic moment,  when his  seed was
spewing deep inside her, Rochelle reached beneath her pillow and felt cold steel
against her hand. She pulled the gun out, and in one motion, lifted it to Tobias
temple and squeezed the trigger.

The noise deafened her.

Her last  vision was of Tobias's  eyes jarring open  in that tiny fraction  of a
miniscule second between  the sound of the explosion and  just before the bullet
plowed into his  brain. Shock and incredulity  froze forever in his  eyes as his
life shut down almost instantly.

Blood, bone, and brains exploded from  his head, spraying down over Rochelle and
the bed. Her hand fell limply by her side, and her good eye closed. Her face was
a bloody mass of exploded and mangled  tissue, and her limp fingers continued to
curl about the gun.

She passed out beneath Tobias's weight, which was forcing the air from her lungs
and nearly cutting off her airflow.

Finally, darkness  seeped into the last  moments of consciousness and  closed in
around her.



“THIS ONE'S STILL ALIVE,” shouted a medic.

“Oh my God!”  Mabel cried from downstairs  at the foot of  the stairway from
where she had heard the man's voice. “Please let it be Rochelle,” she prayed
aloud fervently. She  glanced toward the living room where  Michael sat with his
arms balanced  upon his thighs, his  head bent and  resting in the palms  of his
hands, his shoulders shaking in emotional agony.

When the  paramedics first went upstairs,  word trickled down that  Rochelle and
Tobias were  both dead. When  Michael tried to vault  up the stairs,  two police
officers stopped him and forced him to remain downstairs.

Mabel was the one who found Rochelle and Tobias.

Michael had asked Mabel  to stop by after lunch and check  on Rochelle. When she
rang the doorbell several times, panic rose  in her throat. With her hand on the
doorknob, she reluctantly turned it.

Seeing it was unlocked, she pushed the door back, gazing inside.

“Rochelle?” she  called out in  a timid voice,  not wanting to  startle her.
When no answer  came, she called louder,  her voice rising each  time she called
Rochelle's name. Then with a speed unnatural  for her buxom weight, she took the
stairs two at a time until she stood in the door of Rochelle's room.

The sight was so staggering, she crumpled to her feet, nearly passing out before
she mustered enough control to go downstairs and call the police.

Dazed with shock, she sat in the  living room until the police arrived, followed
by the  medics and an ambulance.  The house was soon  overflowing with uniformed
figures. Finally, when  she could think a little, she  called Michael and shared
the sad news with  him that Rochelle was dead. After  seeing her lifeless figure
beneath Tobias's  dead weight, and  all the blood on  her and Tobias,  any other
conclusion seemed impossible.

“Get a  stretcher up here!  Hurry!” yelled  a frenzied shout  from upstairs.
Then feet were running in mad unison to obey the command                       .

At the sound  of heavy feet just  outside the living room, Michael  looked up in
time to see the men hurrying upstairs with the gurney.

“Michael, I  heard them say  one of them was  still alive,” Mabel  cried and
took one of his hands in hers. She  had never seen him looking so distraught, so
vacant and dead looking.





Mabel's words  registered in his dazed  skull, causing him to  glance sharply at
her, a touch of hope sending a spark to his dull blue eyes. He came to his feet,
hurrying out into  the foyer, his eyes  pealed upward at the  landing. Sounds of
movement  and confusion  came  from  upstairs. Michael  kept  his eyes  trained,
unblinking, bewildered  perplexity shadowing his face,  while delicate stirrings
of hope fed the  heartbeat in his chest. He continued to  watch as the stretcher
rolled down the hallway to the  landing, and the medics carefully transported it
down the stairs. The sheet-covered figure lying upon it was still and unmoving.

Then  Michael  saw  her  face  beneath  the oxygen  mask.  Swollen  all  out  of
proportion, the skin around one eye puffed up like a ball.

Bruises forming on one entire side of  her face, and a puffy cheek distorted any
resemblance to Rochelle.  Her broken lips swelled out of  proportion, while cuts
from Tobias  ring were all over  her face. A stream  of blood ran from  her nose
down to her lips, sliding down from the corners of her mouth to her chin.

Michael's body reacted with a violent shudder  as he stepped back out of the way
of the stretcher and  the paramedics. He and Mabel both  followed in their wake,
their faces  frozen in dismal  shock. The thought  kept ringing in  their minds:
She's alive. She's alive.

Michael managed to keep a semblance of control, despite the fact he felt like he
was coming  apart. He  held back as  the medics put  Rochelle in  the ambulance,
turning and glancing toward the house.

He was thinking about Tobias lying dead in the same bedroom where someone killed
his father and Tina.  He wanted to follow the ambulance to  the hospital, but he
also wanted to learn exactly what happened up there in that room.

“Mabel, wait here. I'll  be right back,” he said and took  off back into the
house.





No policeman was on the stairs just then, so he ascended quickly, darting toward
the bedroom before anyone could stop him.

The sight that met his eyes staggered him. The medics had shoved Chandler on his
back, and he was naked except for his  shirt and socks. His penis and groin area
were soaked in blood, and Michael knew it was probably Rochelle's blood. Another
puddle soaked  into the  bedding where  her hips had  been. Tobias's  temple was
already  becoming crusty  with dried  blood, and  a white  pulpy stuff  that was
likely brain tissue oozed  from the wound. He held a gun in  his right hand, and
the thought  hit Michael squarely  that Tobias had  meant to kill  Rochelle this
time. Another gun, bagged  now, lay on the bedside stand,  and while Michael had
no idea  where she  had gotten  it from,  it had  to be  the weapon  that killed
Tobias.

“Michael,  what  the hell  are  you  doing  here?” Sheriff  Rollins  quaked,
catching sight of  him. “Get out of  here. Fulbright, get out  there and don't
let anyone else up those stairs.”

Michael had seen enough. Hanging his head,  he made his way back down the stairs
where Mabel still waited.

“The son of a bitch was having sex with her,” Michael said stormily to Mabel
when they were in his car.

Mabel sent  him a disbelieving,  disapproving look, shaking her  head. “Mikey,
you can't possibly still be jealous of  him after what you've just witnessed. My
God, give the girl  some credit. You have no idea how  much suffering she's been
through, and you damn sure didn't help any with your puckish jealousy.”

“Lay off  me, Mabel. I can't  take it right now.  My opinion of myself  is bad
enough without having you lay yours on me, too.”

“Mikey, he  has mentally, emotionally, and  sexually abused her for  years. He
victimized her so long it is a wonder she is still sane.

He was evil through and through, and I  am glad the bastard is dead and won't be
able to hurt her anymore. Maybe, finally, she'll have some peace and contentment
in her life if she pulls through this.”



AT THE HOSPITAL,  THE WAITING ROOM, where  they sat for at least  two hours, was
quiet—almost reminiscent of a peaceful  atmosphere. Michael was looking at his
watch when a doctor  stepped into the room. “Are there  any family members for
Mrs.

Rochelle Chandler?”

“Yes, we are,” Mabel replied. She jumped to her feet in unison with Michael.

“She's going to be alright. Although her face is in bad condition now, it will
heal. There were no broken bones, which is a miracle.

She lost a lot of blood and we've had to give her a transfusion.”

“How long will she be here, doctor?”  Mabel asked. “And how long before we
can see her?”

“She's very weak  from loss of blood.  She is going to  need some recuperation
time. Perhaps you can drop by tomorrow and see how she's doing.”





Chapter Forty-One


Rochelle floundered in and  out of consciousness a couple of  days, and then she
began coming out of it. Because of  her severely swollen lip, it was too painful
to attempt to eat, so they gave her juices and soup through straws.

The physician  sent a psychiatrist  to her, but  she refused to  acknowledge his
presence, turning  her head  away when he  tried to speak  with her.  The police
attempted to  question her, but she  stared into space without  blinking an eye,
and they soon gave up the effort, until such time she might be more responsive.

Although Michael  was at the hospital  several times daily, Mabel  was the first
one allowed by Rochelle's doctor to visit her. Not knowing what to expect, Mabel
was  sadly  upset when  informed  by  the  doctor  of Rochelle's  mental  state.
According to him, Rochelle hadn't spoken a word to anyone in the four days since
her arrival.

She was still weak, unable to get out of bed on her own, but the doctor said she
was mending nicely except for her mental condition.

Mabel expected  a silent, unresponsive Rochelle  when she entered her  room. She
was pleasantly surprised, however, when  she neared Rochelle's bed, and Rochelle
lifted her pale  hand to Mabel in  quiet supplication, an imploring  look in her
dull green eyes.

“I thought no one was coming to  see me,” she whispered, struggling with her
words through swollen  lips, only one side  of her mouth able to  move, and each
word bringing a grimace of pain.

“The doctor wouldn't let anyone see you, Sweetpea. He thought it best that you
have some time alone before you received  visitors. If I had known you wanted me
here, I would have been here every day.

“Is Michael all right?” Rochelle asked, trying not to move her lips too much
because of the pain.

“He's fine, but he's worried sick about you. He wants to see you.”

“Not like this. I don't want him to see me like this. Where is Tobias?”

“They're   holding  him   at  the   morgue   until  you're   well  enough   to
decide—well—to make decisions about him.”

“He had no family that I know of. At least he never mentioned any.”

“You don't have to do anything just now except get well.”

Mabel  wanted to  comfort  her, but  felt completely  helpless.  Rochelle was  a
pitifully scarred replica  of what she had previously been.  Her face was black,
blue, and puffy with broken skin on her lip, nose, cheeks and forehead. It would
take weeks before her face was back to normal, if ever.

“I guess it's up to me to make  arrangements. I hoped I would never have to go
back to Miami  again. Now, there is no  other place to go. I can't  stay here. I
will never be able to hold my head up and live in Windy Point again.”

“That isn't true, honey.  You have friends here. Many people  have come to the
hospital to inquire about you.”

“I need  to talk to an  attorney. Maybe you  can recommend someone. I  have to
find out what will  be involved before I can carry Tobias back  to Miami. I also
need to know  when the doctor will  release me.” Her words  and syllables were
broken,  and the  deadening effects  of the  medication soon  carried her  under
again.

She reached  out and grasped  Mabel's hand before  giving in to  the enshrouding
darkness of drug-induced sleep.

Rochelle remained  in the hospital another  six days before the  doctor released
her. The swelling in her face went down  some, but most of her face was blue and
purple with  bruises. Her swollen  eye was still puffy,  and when she  looked at
herself in the mirror, she hated what she saw. Her face was a pitifully deformed
replica of what it  had been. Everyone assured her it would heal  as good as new
and she wouldn't find a single trace of the damage Tobias inflicted.

She silently disagreed vehemently, knowing  the mental and emotional scars would
be with  her for the  remainder of her life.  She had experienced  such horrible
abuse over the  past years from Tobias  she wasn't sure she would  ever get over
this last horror.

She finally consented to letting the police question her.

Attorney Shearborne, referred by Mabel, was  present. When she began telling her
story, reliving  that last span  of time before she  shot Tobias, it  was nearly
more than she could deal with.

The police  absolved her  of wrong,  calling it justifiable  homicide. It  was a
relief knowing the police wouldn't be carting  her off to jail, but the sentence
she served on herself  would be the harshest of all. It  made no difference that
she kept reminding herself that Tobias  would have killed her. The fact remained
that she  took a human life,  and she could not  shake it or the  guilt from her
thoughts.

There were times her  mind was so intent upon what she had  done, she would find
her finger  curving, as if  on the gun trigger,  and squeezing, the  event lived
again-and-again like a movie reel that never ran out of film.

She called Bentley Harrison soon after her release from the hospital, asking him
to set up arrangements in Miami for  a funeral home to receive Tobias's body. He
showed no surprise when she told him  that Tobias was dead. Tobias was big news,
and newspapers across the country carried the story of his death, it hitting all
the Miami papers.

Rochelle learned the Miami police was  also in touch with the investigative team
in Windy Point. Bentley informed her that while many arrests were made of people
attached to Tobias, they no longer had the option of receiving a deal by turning
state's evidence  against Tobias.  Now, the authorities  would charge  them with
crimes committed and they would eventually  go to trial. All those charged froze
up, refusing to  mention Tobias's name at  all as soon as they  received word of
his  death,  fearing  they  would  incriminate themselves.  Even  to  have  been
associated with him insured a worst fate than might otherwise be expected. Their
attention turned now to saving their own hides. Without witnesses, the state had
nothing on Tobias, and his estate was  in tact and safe from confiscation by the
authorities  over suspected  drug involvement.  Rochelle was  now a  doubly rich
young woman.



MABEL TOOK  ALL ROCHELLE'S clothes and  personal items from the  Matheson house.
Rochelle came to stay with Mabel  while handling flight arrangements for her and
Tobias's body.

Michael attempted  several times  to see  Rochelle, but  she still  refused. She
resolved herself to the idea that she  and Michael were finished, and seeing him
again would only stir up old hurts and wounds she wanted to forget. Mabel begged
her to see him before she left for Miami, but no amount of pleading would change
her mind.

“He loves you, Sweetpea, and he's going  out of his mind because you won't see
him. If you knew how much he is hurting you wouldn't be so stubborn.”

“He'll hurt much less  without me to complicate his life.”  She spoke like a
robot, her feelings dormant  while she moved through the haze  of trying to move
forward.

“Honey, don't you feel anything at all for Michael? I thought you loved him. I
was sure you loved him.”

“I'll  always love  him,  Mabel,  but I  need  time to  try  and  get my  head
together.”

“Rochelle,” Mabel said, rarely using Rochelle's Christian name,

“if  you leave  here without  putting things  right between  you and  Michael,
you'll be making the biggest mistake of your life.”

She gave Mabel a cold stare. “No,  the biggest mistake was marrying Tobias. My
second  biggest mistake  was getting  involved with  Michael when  circumstances
forbade it.  I can't  undo that, but  I can  make sure he  won't have  to suffer
anymore because of me.”

“Thank God  that he  can at least  put his  mind to rest  over his  father and
Tina's murder. The lab  report came back on the gun discovered  at the house. It
contained Wayne's fingerprints  all over it, as did the  diary, which definitely
ties him to the murders. The police have not discovered his whereabouts yet, but
they have put  out an APB on him,  and an arrest is imminent.  Michael won't say
much about it,  but I can tell he  is extremely relieved to have  that shadow no
longer  hanging  over  his head.  What  he  went  through  when his  father  and
stepmother were murdered was a traumatic experience.

He knows a little of what you are going through now.”

“What was in the diary?”

“It belonged to Tina Matheson. Wayne must  have made the hole beneath the tile
so she could keep her diary there. After  he shot and killed them, he feared the
police might catch him with the gun on  his person, so he stuffed it in the hole
with the diary,  never realizing Tina had recorded every  sordid detail of their
affair in it. I think he had intentions of eventually coming back and retrieving
the gun  but for whatever reason,  he never got around  to it. Since no  one was
living in  the house immediately  after the deaths  of the Mathesons,  I suppose
Wayne thought the gun would be safely concealed.”

“I'm glad for Michael,” she said, too numb to show much enthusiasm.

Rochelle's flight  schedule was  for the  following morning,  and there  was one
final thing she  must do. Driving to  the bank, she prayed Michael  would not be
there, that she would  not have to suffer that last indignity  of having to face
him.

Shame was like a disease she carried  around with her, and looking straight into
the eyes  of anyone other  than Mabel, made it  extremely difficult to  hold her
head up with any degree of dignity.

The fact that her face was still a grievously discolored and damaged fruit, made
Rochelle even more intimidated at having to see people.

Their stares unnerved her, causing her to feel like a bauble on display.





All eyes  alighted upon her slender,  expensively dressed figure the  minute she
stepped through  the door  of the bank.  She was wearing  a dark  blue two-piece
suit, the jacket with long sleeves and  pearly blue buttons. She carried a small
black patent  leather handbag  and wore  matching pumps.  Even with  her bruised
face, she  portrayed a vision  of attractive  femininity and a  regal-like grace
that could still draw respect edged with  envy. With her long wavy, curling mane
of auburn-gold hair,  she was an arresting sight, everything  about her perfect,
all except her slowly healing face.

With Michael's help, soon after she had settled in the Matheson house, he helped
her invest  a major portion of  her money. Now,  it grew with interest  in large
enough quantities  she could  live comfortably off  just the  interest. However,
there was  no need to since  she had kept a  goodly sum of liquid  assets in her
savings and checking accounts,  as well as ready cash in  her safety deposit box
along with  her diamond  rings. Now,  not expecting  to be  back in  Windy Point
anytime soon,  maybe never, she was  forced to go to  the bank one last  time to
empty the safety deposit box. The checking and savings account could remain open
so she could write checks as needed.

Going to  the nearest teller  where the vaulted  safety deposit boxes  were, she
requested  admittance,  and the  teller  showed  her  into  a small  room  after
retrieving her  box. She  picked up her  diamond rings and  stared at  them. She
recalled when Tobias bought  them. It was on the same day  they were married. He
stopped by the jewelry store and told her  to pick what she liked. Like a little
kid who  chooses the  “biggest piece”  of candy, her  attention drew  to the
biggest diamonds, and  the ones giving off the brightest  sparkle. She never saw
the price, but when  the clerk raised both brows over  rounded eyes and grinned,
Rochelle could nearly imagine him busy counting his money from the sale.





The teller assisting Rochelle  went back to her window and  picked up the phone.
“Mr. Matheson,  I thought you'd  like to know Mrs.  Chandler is in  the safety
deposit vault.” She set the phone back on its hook.

Rochelle shook  her head  with a shudder  and reminded herself  she had  to stop
dwelling on  memories. “Concentrate on what  you have to do,  Rochelle,” she
whispered to herself, and started emptying the money from the safety deposit box
and putting it in her handy old duffle bag.

Intent upon  what she  was doing, the  door behind her  opened without  a sound.
Rochelle  stayed at  her task  several seconds  before awareness  of a  presence
gained her  startled attention. Turning about,  she saw him standing  there, his
proud  face  composed, reflecting  none  of  the  stormy emotions  her  presence
evoked—only a deep, inexplicable regret.

“No, Michael,”  she whispered, turning  her face away  from him to  hide her
shame and the deformity of her abused face.

“Chelle…” his voice caught in his throat and he seemed unable to continue.
Instead of words,  he put his hands on  her arms and lifted her  from the chair,
turning her to face him.

Ashamed of her damaged  face, instead of looking at him, her  head bent down and
she stared  at the floor,  the bruised  side of her  face turned away  from him.
“Please go, Michael. I can't stand to have you witness my shame.”

“I love you,  Chelle. I love you, and I  have been a fool not to  let you know
how much.  I made a terrible  mistake when I let  my feelings wreck what  we had
together. I should have mended the breach  immediately, but I was too damn proud
and stubborn. But I  want you to know now how terribly sorry  I am that I caused
you—

caused us both—so much pain.”





She shook her head, unable to speak,  the untapped tears of earlier now bursting
forth like a fountain.

“You have nothing to be ashamed of,” he said, tilting her chin upward.

“Please don't make this any harder than it already is, Michael,”

she cried  pitifully, her  knees weakening  and playing  havoc with  her upright
posture as she grasped the table behind her for support.

Michael's arms went  around her. They were strong, loving,  and protective arms.
It  was a  moment of  intense release  as she  gave in  to the  pleasantness his
closeness afforded. She leaned against his chest.

“Honey, I don't want to make it harder  for you. I want to make it easier. Let
me help you get through this?”

Rochelle appraised the words of his deep, sensual voice. How easy it would be to
let Michael handle  everything for her. The temptation held  strong appeal. Yet,
wasn't that what she  had been forced to do with Tobias all  those years? He had
handled everything, handled  her whole life, ruling and dictating  until she had
no life.

“I have  to do this on  my own,” she  replied to Michael's offer,  her voice
stronger  now, and  more  determined.  Bentley Harrison  will  handle things  in
Miami.”  Dabbing at  the tears  with the  handkerchief Michael  gave her,  she
regained control, but her hands trembled violently.

“What will you do when you've done all you need to do there?”

“I don't know. Maybe travel some, try to find myself again.”

Glancing up at the deeply etched lines of  strain and fatigue on his face, a new
flood of tears gushed forth as it occurred to her how much she would miss him.

“Michael…” she began, but bit back the rest of her words. What purpose was
there in telling him how much she loved him, how much she would miss him?





He seemed to know what she had started to say. “Say it, Chelle.

Don't leave me hanging like this.”

Reaching  up she  touched his  cheek, his  square chin  already darkened  by the
growing stubble and the lateness of the day.

“Michael, you were—always will be—the most  precious thing in my life, but
too many  things has happened now,  and we can never  go back to where  we were.
It's too late for me, but it's not for you.”

“Chelle, you're going through hell right now.  You have no idea what you want.
I know you love me, and I love you. I won't let you destroy what we have.”

“I'm sorry, Michael. It's over. Let it go.”

Staring  deeply into  her green  eyes, he  searched her  face before  declaring,
“I'm not letting you out of my life that easily.”

“Please, Michael, just go. I need to be alone.”

Gingerly, he  touched his  lips to  hers, and  then studied  her face  a moment.
“Until we meet again...”

Turning, he marched out the door, closing it behind him without looking back.





Chapter Forty-Two


From an airport  terminal window, Mabel stood with Rochelle  and watched in numb
shock  as attendants  loaded Tobias's  casket upon  the plane.  A few  uniformed
police officers stood  by to keep order  in case the press  or onlookers crowded
about. A solemn  moment pervaded the atmosphere. Rochelle turned  away after the
first glance at the casket, oddly the same  color of bronze as in her dreams, it
chosen by the local funeral home. A  torrent of confused feelings tumbled one on
top of the other, and strongest among them was the vision of the moment when her
finger pressed the  trigger. Tobias was dead,  and she was free.  Oddly, she had
not even noticed  until now how truly  free she did feel. The  old fears, nursed
for nearly all the years she knew  Tobias, had vanished. The tension was gone in
her shoulders. The anxiety and dread had disappeared.

“Mabel, I'm going to  miss you. You are a valued friend, and  I hope our paths
will cross  again. Perhaps  when I am  settled and have  my life  together again
you'll take a vacation and come for a visit.”

“We never know what's ahead of us, do we?” Mabel asked, thinking more on the
past than the future. “I'll miss you,  too, Sweetpea. You have taken a special
place in  my heart. I do  hope you will  keep in touch  and let me know  how you
fare.”

“I will, I promise.  Keep the car and drive it. If I  never come back, then it
is yours.  Please tell Michael...” tears  rushed to her eyes,  and she cleared
her throat, swallowing the lump before she could finish her statement.

“Tell him, for what it's worth, I will always hold him dear.”

When they announced passengers could begin  boarding the plane, she hugged Mabel
fiercely. Then turning  without looking back she hastened to  the loading chute,
little realizing that in an unobservable area behind where she and Mabel stood a
minute ago was Michael.

When Rochelle was out of sight, Mabel joined Michael.

“Mikey, are you really going to let her walk out of your life like this?”

“It's what she wants,  Mabel. I don't have much choice.”  His face was pale,
and his ravaged appearance denoted another night without sleep.

“She's upset,  confused, distraught, and  assaulted by enormous  emotions, but
one thing is certain, she loves you. Even  if she does not realize it, she needs
someone now more than ever before. When the total shock of all that has happened
wears off, I am  afraid of what the outcome will be. Michael,  what she has gone
through, and still has to go through, is more than most women could endure.”

“Your concern is generous, Mabel, but she made her choice, and I wasn't it.”

“Mikey, let's go get a cup of coffee. I need to talk to you about some things.
Maybe  after you  hear what  I've got  to say,  you'll understand  why she  left
you.”

They found a coffee shop and ordered two cups.

“Mikey,  do you  have any  idea  what it  feels  like to  feel dirty,  soiled,
unclean, and tarnished? Do you know what it is like to feel such humiliation and
shame that you lose  your nerve to face someone you love?  She feels unworthy of
you. She  thinks she is  not good enough  for you. I  have seen her  shudder and
cringe at the thought of people seeing  her and Tobias upon that bed. That alone
is enough  to send her to  a psychiatrist's couch. I  am telling you she  is not
entirely competent  at this  time to know  what she wants.  She is  confused and
disoriented.”

“Mabel, I know there must be a point  to all this. There's not a thing you can
tell me that I haven't gone over in my mind numerous times.”

“I am not  trying to interfere in  your life, Mikey, but you  know yourself it
was your jealously  that tore the two  of you apart. It  frightened her terribly
after what she  went through with Tobias. He abused  her sexually, mentally, and
physically, and it  is a wonder she  can function normally at all.  She has been
through hell, and it is not over yet. If you think what you suffered in jail was
so bad,  just imagine yourself being  brutally raped nearly every  night of your
life for years.”

Mabel watched Michael's face contort in fury and anguish, and she could not know
that he was recalling the gentle confession  on the night he had first made love
to Rochelle. That  has never happened to  me before, she had  said, referring to
the first  climax she had  ever experienced. I never  realized it could  be like
this.

“Save  your  fury,  Mikey,”  Mabel  retorted,  misunderstanding  his  facial
expression. “You'll need it for the rest I have to tell you.”

“Mabel, no  more,” his voice  vibrated with fury  and pain. “Good  God, no
more.” He cupped his face in his  hands, his elbows resting on the table. Then
he began trembling all over.

“There  are  the  ticket  windows,   just  beyond  that  door,”  Mabel  said
suggestively. “She needs you,  even if she doesn't believe it  right now. If I
did not know how much she loves you, I would never suggest such a thing. But she
does love you.”

Mabel watched the storms  blowing across his face, and she  truly thought he was
going to  have a  heart attack.  Then his features  changed ostensibly,  in slow
motion, from  fury to  thoughtfulness, then to  determination, followed  by meek
tenderness.

“An attorney  whose name is Bentley  Harrison will know where  to find her,”
Mabel added when she was sure he had taken the bait.

Then  a  self-satisfied smile  pressed  little  dimples  in  her cheeks  as  she
continued watching the expression on Michael's face changing.



SOON AFTER MICHAEL STEPPED off the plane in Miami, he found a phone book, looked
up Bentley  Harrison's address,  and rather than  call him, took  a taxi  to the
man's office.

The secretary was a sophisticated middle-aged woman, well dressed, and extremely
polite. “Good morning, Sir,  how may I help you?” Her  smile was as pleasant
as her disposition

“I'd like to see Mr. Harrison,” Michael replied in a businesslike manner.

“Do you have an appointment, Sir?”





“No, please tell Mr. Harrison I'm  Michael Matheson and have just arrived from
Montana.”

Maintaining a  guise of cool  politeness, she nodded,  and picked up  her phone.
“Mr. Harrison, Mr. Michael Matheson of Montana is here to see you, Sir.” She
listened to the response a moment then put the phone down.

She sent  Michael another warm smile.  “Mr. Harrison will see  you now,” she
said, standing and leading the way to the office door.

She opened  it and  stood aside for  him to pass,  sending him  another friendly
smile as she closed the door behind him.

When Bentley Harrison rose from his chair, his more than six-feet height towered
above Michael by an inch or two. Michael judged him to be about the same age his
father would have been,  in his late fifties. He looked  at Michael through eyes
that never  lost their  worried expression,  but his smile  was genuine  and his
handshake firm.

“Mr. Matheson, it's good  to meet you. I was sorry to hear  the sad news about
your  father's  death. Mrs.  Chandler  told  me a  little  about  you, and  your
generosity in helping her.  Have a seat,” he said, pointing  toward one of the
chairs facing his desk. “What can I do for you, Mr. Matheson?”

Michael  lowered himself  into  the black  leather chair.  “I'm  here to  give
whatever support  I can  to Rochelle,  but I was  hoping you  might tell  me the
disposition of Chandler's drug operation.”

“It's very  favorable. Every suspect  proven to have  ties to Chandler  or his
drug smuggling  and distribution operation  is in custody, including  the guards
that worked at his  estate. If you have kept up with the  news, you know its one
of  the biggest  drug bust  Miami  has ever  known. Cops,  police officers,  two
judges, and several other public officials  are now in custody. I understand the
DA has a strong case against them. Tobias's  death was a boon for the DA. He can
terminate the deals made to perpetrators  on behalf of testimony against Tobias,
and everyone involved will likely serve full sentences.”

“I bet a lot of folks here in Miami can breathe a lot easier now.”

“Oh, you  better believe  that,” Harrison  smiled. “Is  Rochelle expecting
you?”

“No, she isn't, but I'm concerned about her present mental state, I hope I can
offer support and help her thought this.  She's been through a great trauma, and
while she  seems to be  bearing up  under the pressure,  I know she  is severely
stressed.”

“I came to  that same conclusion when I  met her at the airport. I  am to meet
her in an hour. You're welcome to wait and we can go together.”

“Thanks,  but if  you'll  tell me  where  to find  her, I'd  just  as soon  go
ahead.”

“She's  at Chandler's  estate. She  wanted a  chance to  pack up  some of  her
personal things  before we met.  I took  the liberty of  putting a guard  on the
gate, so you might have a problem getting in.”

He picked up one  of his business cards, and handed it  to Michael. “Show this
to him, and  have him call me if  there's a problem. I believe  you already know
where it  is?” Amusement  spread across  his face,  as he  recalled Rochelle's
narration of her rescue by Michael.

“I obviously  have no  secrets from  you, Mr.  Harrison,” Michael  said with
light mockery, and stood up.

Harrison shot him a smile. “I was a  friend of her family since before she was
born. I  am her Godfather, you  know. I think of  her as my own  daughter, and I
believe her confidences show a similar affection for me.”

“Thank you, Sir,”  Michael said respectfully, reaching out  his hand. “I'm
certain we'll  be seeing each other  again.” Michael picked up  his bag, which
contained two changes  of clothing, extra shirts, his electric  razor and toilet
articles. He left Harrison's office.

Michael took a  cab to Chandler's estate  where he inquired at the  gate if Mrs.
Chandler was home before dismissing the taxi                                   .

“She's home, Sir,” said a uniformed, off-duty, police officer,

“but I can't let you go in there.”

“I expected that,” Michael told him, producing Harrison's business card. Mr.
“Harrison said to call him if there is a problem.”

The guard picked  up the phone and  dialed the number, greeted the  voice on the
other end, then looked at Michael. “Your name, Sir?”

“Michael Matheson.”

The guard said the name in the phone, listened, and hung up.

“You may go in,” he said, going into his tiny cubicle to press a button that
opened the repaired gate.

Michael dismissed  his cab and  stepped inside the  gate, hearing it  whine shut
behind him. There  were no dogs, no  other guards, and no activity  at all going
on. The estate seemed nearly ghostly quiet  and death-like. He began the hike up
the long  driveway to the  house, reminded of  Rochelle's mention of  riding her
bike on the driveway.

The thought made  him think of a sad  young woman, alone, lonely, and  no one to
turn  to when  the world  seemed fraught  only with  misery and  pain. It  was a
humbling thought.





Chapter Forty-Three


Rochelle was  in the bedroom  where she was going  through her huge  wardrobe of
clothing. She tossed  numerous suits, dresses, skirts, blouses and  pants on the
bed, intending to pack them into the  suitcases setting on the carpet nearby. In
the spacious  closet, holding  Tobias's clothing  on one side,  and hers  on the
other, she turned, and  in a thoughtful mood, reached out,  touching a couple of
jackets Tobias had liked best.

The funeral was that afternoon, and the funeral home would be sending someone by
soon to  pick up the clothing  to bury him in.  She had no idea  what to choose.
What  kind of  things  are people  dressed  in for  their  burial? She  wondered
dismally, not even knowing  what the maid had chosen for  her parents since they
had closed  caskets at  the service. She  felt tears expand  behind her  eyes in
intermittent cycles over the misery of trying to make decisions when she was too
confused to think.

Then like a  hammer, it hit her, the  misery of the years she had  spent in this
house, in this  room, in this bed. The physical,  mental and emotional suffering
endured washed  through her like a  giant wave, mixed with  the churning thought
that she had taken a human life. The  weight crushed down on her like a block of
steel. She raised her hand in front  of her eyes, studying it, seeing it holding
a gun that  pointed to Tobias's temple,  then feeling the gentle  squeeze of her
finger on the trigger, the explosion…

She shoved Tobias's  suits aside one at  a time, rejecting one  after the other,
until, blinded  by tears, she could  no longer see.  Her legs went limp  and she
crumpled to  her knees, her head  inclined, her upper torso  pressed against her
thighs. Loneliness  engulfed her with  such fierceness that she  suddenly wished
she were choosing clothing for her own funeral.

“Oh, dear God, what am I to do with my life?” she cried helplessly, thinking
of Michael with longing.

The ringing  of the doorbell  chimed from  the upstairs landing,  and Rochelle's
whole body stiffened with tense listening. When it rang again, she rose from her
crouched pose,  hurrying to  the stairs  and on down,  expecting to  see Bentley
Harrison  at the  door, or  the  man from  the  funeral home  to fetch  Tobias's
clothing. She still had  not chosen a suit. She hoped either  of them would help
her choose.

She grabbed the doorknob,  then wiped at the sheeted tears  on her cheeks before
opening it.  “Uncle Bentley,  I'm so  gla...” she started  to say,  and then
stopped, startled by the face before her.

“Michael?” His name came out in a shocked whisper.

A slow light crept  into her green orbs, warming their  depths, and suddenly she
had never been happier in her life to see anyone.

Misery and  joy compounded together  as she crumpled to  the hard marble  on her
knees, balling like a kid.

“It's okay, honey. I'm here to help you  in any way I can.” He pulled her to
her feet, and  moved her inside. After  closing the door behind him,  he set his
suitcase on the foyer and stood holding her.

He  would  have  moved  to  the  living  room,  but  the  doorbell  rang  again,
persistently. Michael opened the door this time.

“Yes, what can I  do for you?” he asked of the black  suited man whose black
car flaunted a funeral home logo on the car door.

“I'm here for the clothing for the deceased,” the pale faced man stated from
a stiff vertical pose.

Rochelle was standing behind Michael. “Let him come in, Michael. I didn't know
what to choose.”

Michael  sent the  man to  a chair  in the  room off  the foyer,  and then  went
upstairs with  Rochelle, taking  the initiative  to choose  a suit,  shirt, tie,
underwear, socks and shoes for Tobias. He  put it all in a zippered clothing bag
while Rochelle sat on the edge of the  bed and tearfully watched him. He took it
back downstairs and  she continued to sit  on the bed, her gaze  trained at some
invisible object on the carpet.





She was sorting through her closet when Michael came back up.

Going to her, he  wrapped his hands about her wrists,  keeping her from pursuing
her task.

“You don't  have to  do that  just now, Chelle.  It can  wait until  after the
funeral. Come with me downstairs to wait for Bentley Harrison. He should be here
soon. You look tired. Have you slept at all?”

“A little,” she whispered absently,  letting him lead her downstairs. “Why
did you come, Michael?”

“I came  because I wanted to  be with you, and  because I knew you  would need
someone  to help  you get  through this.  But more  than anything  else, I  came
because I love you.”

“I'm glad you're here,” she said, breaking into tears again. “I can't seem
to stop crying. I am a mess, Michael. I'm a real mess right now.”

“It's okay to cry, honey. It'll help heal the pain.”

She leaned her head back into the crook of his arm and shoulder. His arm reached
reassuringly around her waist as they went downstairs. “This house has so many
terrible memories,”  she said after they  were in the living  room, sitting on
the sofa. “When I walk into a room I almost expect to see Tobias there.”

“Where are you staying?”

“I'm staying at a motel not far from here. I thought about staying here, but I
can feel his presence as strongly as if he were in the room with us.”

With a thoughtful glance at Michael, more words poured from her mouth in a rush.
“Michael, I had to  pull that trigger or he would have  killed me instead, and
he threatened to come after you. I had to stop him.”

He patted her back.  “Chelle, you did what you had to do,  what anyone in your
place would have done. Honey, you had no choice.”





“Why do  terrible things have  to happen to people?  Why can't people  just be
peaceful and happy?”

“If we had an answer to that question life would be paradise.

Honey, it will get easier in time. When  all this is behind you, the memory will
fade, and you'll go on with your life.”

“What am I going to do?”

Michael cupped  her chin in his  palm, and looked  at her bruised face  that was
beginning to heal. “You don't have to decide that now, Chelle. I am here and I
do not intend to leave you alone until you are sure what you do want. We will go
away together, see new faces, experience  a different environment, give you time
to mend.  What you have  been through would  have permanently wounded  any woman
lesser than you. You've got strength enough that you'll get through this.”

“I am so ashamed knowing people saw what Tobias did to me.”

“Don't think about that now. The pain will pass. You'll see.”

“If I can just get through today,  through the funeral, then maybe things will
slowly get better.”

“We'll get  through it together.  You're not  alone,” he reassured  her with
loving tenderness.

She clasped his  hand and held it to  her heart. “No, I'm not  alone, and when
I'm with you, I've never felt alone.”

“Honey, you're never going to be alone again.”





Epilogue


Five years later


A long white limousine  crawled to a stop in front of a  tall modern building, a
structure made of  steel, mortar and glass.  The building was the  same one that
was in  the picture, which  had hung  on the wall  behind Michael's desk  at the
bank;  the same  building  Michael sold  after his  father  and stepmother  were
murdered. He had been able to buy it back for only a little more than he sold it
for.

The chauffeur  came around and  opened the door, offering  a hand to  the little
four-year-old boy  who climbed out  first. Then with his  other hand, he  took a
tiny two-year-old  girl's hand  in his and  helped her from  the car.  With both
hands occupied,  he stood and watched  the beautiful Mrs. Matheson  twist on the
seat and put her feet on the pavement  before exiting. She had a ready smile for
him as she always did when he drove her and the children somewhere.

As she climbed  from the car and stood  on the sidewalk, her eyes  drifted up at
the name  over the large  swinging doors  that opened on  the huge lobby  of the
building.

“Matheson and  Associates Architectural  Firm,” she read  aloud, a  touch of
pride swelling in  her chest. “Children,” she said, taking  their hands from
the chauffeur, “that's your daddy's name up there, and some day one or both of
you will have your name up there, too.”

“I can draw pictures like daddy,”  young Joanna stated proudly, holding up a
picture she had brought just for her daddy.

“You can't draw. Can she, mommy?” Jason asked with a scowl on his face.

“Your sister is very talented, but so  are you,” she said, giving him a warm
hug.

“Shall I wait  for you, Mrs. Matheson,” the chauffeur  asked, smiling at the
beautiful mother with her two small children.

“Yes, Jack. My husband is taking us for lunch. We have something special we're
going to celebrate.”

“I bet it's  a birthday,” he said,  looking from one of the  children to the
other.

Rochelle smiled, her eyes lighting up with brilliant green lights.

“You  wouldn't be  far  wrong,” she  stated happily,  and  went through  the
swinging doors with the children who looked like they had just stepped out of an
expensive clothing store.

The guard in  the lobby called out a  hello to the children and  waved, and they
waved happily back at him.

“Daddy's taking us out to lunch,” young Jason called. “We're celebrating a
birthday.”

Rochelle sent the guard a bright smile  then pulled the children in the elevator
when  the doors  opened, and  pointed  to the  button the  children fought  over
pushing together.

They  exited the  elevator and  opened  a door  off  the hallway  into a  large,
cheerful  reception  area, where  two  secretaries  sat  behind desks.  One  was
Rochelle's dear friend Mabel.

“Hi,  Mabel,”  Rochelle  said,  smiling her  warmest  smile.  “Is  Michael
busy?”

Mabel rose from  her chair, hugging the  children, and lifting Joanna  up in her
arms.

“Aunt Mabel, you're squeezing me!” Joanna squealed in complaint.

Mabel eased off on  her hug, smiling with joy as  she answered Rochelle. “He's
in his  office, but I'll  let him know you're  here,” she said,  still holding
onto a squirming Joanna while she picked up the phone.

Mabel put Joanna down with a kiss upon her cheek. Then glancing at Rochelle, she
said, “He said to come into his office.

There's someone you haven't seen in a while.”

Taking the children's hands, she went toward the door that opened for her as she
neared it. Michael  gazed at her proudly,  took the liberty of a  kiss, and then
kissed  his children.  They all  stood there  while the  children greeted  their
daddy.

“Daddy, we're celebrating a birthday. Can we go to lunch?”

Jason called excitedly.





“A birthday, you say? Whose birthday is  it? If it's not mommy's birthday, not
mine, not Jason's, and  not Joanna's, whose birthday can it  be?” He looked up
at Rochelle for confirmation, and when  she nodded her head, Michael greeted her
with a huge smile and another warm kiss.

“Daddy,”  Joanna said  shyly, tilting  her head  against her  mother's skirt
while holding up her picture to her daddy.

“You drew a picture  for me?” he asked excitedly, hugging her  as if she had
just produced a masterpiece. “I'll put it in my office,”

he said, lifting  her in his arms.  Then to Rochelle, “it's  been awhile since
you visited. I believe you'll enjoy seeing who's here.”

He led her  and the children into  his office where Bentley  Harrison sat. Mabel
had slipped in through  the boardroom door and now sat next  to Bentley, the two
having formed a warm relationship.

“Oh my goodness,”  Rochelle gasped, covering her mouth with  her han Uncled.
“Bentley!” she exclaime                                                   d.

Bentley  came to  his feet,  stepping forward.  He hugged  her generously.  They
passed several words of greeting between them.

Jason began  tugging at his  father's hand. “Daddy,  mommy said you'll  put my
name on the sign with your name.”

Michael looked  down at  his young  son, took his  hand and  walked over  to the
window overlooking a large stretch of San Francisco. He picked Jason up, holding
a child in each arm. “Not only will your name someday be on the sign, son, but
you'll be a master architect who will make your old man extremely proud.”

“I can draw pictures like you, daddy,” Joanna volunteered, not wanting to be
left out.

“Yes, you can, and if you choose, you will work right along side your brother,
and together the two of you will create the finest buildings in the world.”

Rochelle chuckled and said, “You hope.”





There was a bulletin board nearby and  putting the children down, Michael made a
big show of tacking Joanna's picture on it.

After they admired it a moment or two, he turned to his friends.

“Bentley, if you  and Mabel will excuse us,  I believe my family and  I have a
birthday to celebrate.”

“Whose birthday is it?” Bentley asked.

“He or she doesn't have a name yet?” Michael said, and grinned at his lovely
wife whose long red hair flowed down over her shoulders.

“You  mean you're  going to  have  another one?”  Mabel blurted  out in  her
outspoken way.

Rochelle smiled at her and nodded.

“Why am I surprised?” Mabel asked. “You told me you want four.”

Bentley looked at Mabel. “Mabel, do you think we're too old to…” he smiled
as she interrupted him.

“Don't even think it,” she laughed.

Laughing, Michael wrapped his arm about Rochelle's slender waist, and sent her a
look of devotion. “Do you feel okay, honey?”

“I feel wonderful,” she stated, smiling brightly.

Michael took  Jason's small hand.  Joanna took her  mother's right hand  and the
Matheson family  went out together,  chuckling when  Joanna asked if  they could
have a pink birthday cake.





####

NOTE FROM AUTHOR:

If you  enjoyed reading about Michael,  Rochelle, and Ramm Prescott,  the karate
black belt expert, see what new adventures they are up to in the book: Seductive
Betrayal. Ramm sets out to gain his  trust fund fortune by seducing Jeannie, and
his betrayal starts a horror story of conflicts.



Titles by

Jeanette Cooper

(Available in paperback and e-book)

A Killer Amongst Us

Seductive Betrayal

Stripped of Dignity

Under Suspicion

Dark Depths of Love

Violent Visions of Murder

Desperate Choices

Impending Danger

When Justice is Served

Conquered Heart

Wall of Color

Nature & Life: A Poetic Journey

http://www.jeanettecooper.net





